---
author: Kenny Robinson
posted: 2019-07-30
updated: 2020-07-08
category: Handyman
type: blog
---

# Reinforce Bookcase with Plywood

## Summary

In this video, I show how I went about reinforcing a bookcase with a plywood 
back. The original backing that came with the bookcase was made of cardboard. 
After a number of moves and relocations, the cardboard begin to tear and the 
strength of the bookcase diminished.

## Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rSeh_evVC2U" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Video Transcript

in this video I'm going to show you how
I replace the back of a bookcase to make
it stronger thanks for checking out the
almost engineered channel if you are
interested in tech tutorials
home-improvement tutorials or automotive
tutorials please consider subscribing to
the channel so this is a bookcase that
I've had for some time now and through
years of moving it around from room to
room and location in the location over
time it has gotten weaker so what I've
actually done is had to move it and
disassembly partially as you see here I
have it on a painting cloth to prevent
scratches from getting on in front of it
and the reason why is kind of weak is
because of the backing of it is made out
of cardboard which is not really a
strong and sturdy material but it is
served the purpose while it was
originally set up so what I did was
disassemble the part and then basically
reassemble the bottom half of the
bookshelf and I'm leaving the cardboard
in place so that the finish of the back
of the bookcase is still the same the
other side of the cardboard that's there
has to simmer full case finish so I'm
taking the measurements and so you want
to take the measurements from top to
bottom and then left to right
next I said of my plug would on some
salt horses and then I measured and drew
my straight line using a straight edge
in this case I am using a level for a
straight edge so then using a 2x4 I used
it as a rope fence and so just a matter
of clamping it down by measuring the
width of the saw from the fence and then
to confirm I just used a tape measure to
make sure the distance between the line
and the rope fence material was the same
from the starting point to the ending
point and then clamped it down and then
just cut the piece of plywood now you
can use the table saw or a circle
assault for this purpose either one will
get the job done next I took the cut
piece of plywood and placed it on the
back of the bookcase and then I
proceeded to make sure and align it to
each of the corners I did end up having
a little bit of overlap over the edges
but nothing too major that you can't pay
attention to and also the bottom part of
the bookcase was slightly out of square
so I did realign that accordingly next I
proceeded to drill holes through the
plywood and the bookcase and this is to
make sure that the wood does not split
when security screws to the bookcase is
given that the edge of the bookcase is
very close to the edge of the plywood if
you don't pre-drill your holes first you
risk splitting the plywood or they would
on a bookcase
to draw a straight line of where the
wood is set in from the edge
I used my square and then just a pencil
marking from all the way down and just
pull the square all the way down the
length of the plywood and this will give
me a guideline of where the center of
the bookcase edge is and I can just
follow that line all the way down when I
am attaching this screws this ensures
that you don't have any kind of blowout
on either side of the wood of your
bookcase or you drill through the edges
then I proceeded to pre-drill the holes
all the way down the line on each side
and around each of edges these are the
holes that I'm drilling is roughly
between four and six inches apart the
spacing depends on the type of material
that you're using this bookcase is
actually made out of fiber MDF fiber
board or particle board so you know you
want to make sure that it is secured and
this may be more screws than necessary
but it's better to build something
that's way stronger than it needs to be
then to under build it and have it
collapse once I was finished I stood up
the bookcase and ensured that it was
able to stand up on his own there are
some screws that had to be tightened so
I went ahead and retighten those and
once done you can see here the bookcase
is actually standing up on its own now
with the reinforced backing which before
it was not able to do
hopefully this video has given you
insight and how to reinforce your
bookcase so that you can make it
stronger if you have any questions
please leave those in the comment
section below also please like and
comment and subscribe and please follow
me on instagram and twitter at almostengr
