---
category: Technology
posted: 2020-01-21
updated: 2020-07-15
---

# Google Search Console Reports 500 Errors

## Summary

After converted my website from Drupal 7 to a static website, I received an email from Google that their Search Console was getting pages that mentioned 500 errors. 

Here's the detail about why those pages show up and how to go about correcting them. 

## Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cmiiW83eV-E" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Video Transcript

recently I received the email from
Google saying that it was receiving 500
errors when it was looking at the pages
on my website so I'm show you what I
did to investigate it and what the fix
is what's going on fellow engineers
thank you for checking out my channel if
you're interested in checking out videos
about technology and how to do things
yourself please be sure to subscribe by
clicking the subscribe button below
so recently as I mentioned I got to this
video this email from Google and as you
see here it mentions my website the
almost engineer calm and that the search
console detected the issue with my
website and as you see here is getting
errors of the 500 X X type so what I did
was to go into the Google search console
and if you go to the coverage page it
will show you that there are errors here
there are valid pages and some pages
were excluded but here are the errors as
you see there are 9 of them I actually
in did remove more than nine pages what
happened was I've converted my site from
Drupal 7 to a static site using MK ducts
and so a lot of those pages like key
word pages category pages other type of
taxonomy type pages that were
automatically being generated by Drupal
are no longer there because I'm now
using MK Docs and so what has happened
is that google has went to those pages
that were previously in the sitemap that
a newer from the Drupal site and now it
doesn't see them and so it has since
alerted that hey these pages were
previously here now they're not and I'm
getting 500 errors you might want to
look into this and so I've come into
search console and as you see here the
details
stro 500 X X error and so it has found
or identified nine pages that match this
server error and so if I go to one of
these URLs so I'm just take this first
one here at the top
yeah come on copy and so my hosting
provider is throwing this page because
it does not exist this is a valid you
know page that should not exist anymore
because of the conversion but it's also
found other URLs that exist here that
prove that previously existed that no
longer exists so as far as I'm concerned
all of these are valid 500 errors and
should not be a problem if you have
these URLs coming in and they should not
be coming in meaning the pages for these
URLs still exist but Google's saying
there I'm getting 500 errors as they
don't exist then you need to take action
into investigating why is the search
console or Google getting 500 errors if
those pages actually do exist since
those pages do not exist in my
particular scenario
i am probably will be fine with them
throwing 500 errors what I could do is
possibly put in a redirect page and that
redirect page redirects you back from
these errors that are thrown at 500
these pages 200 or 500 errors back to
the home page or somewhere else on the
site to say like this page no longer
exists or something of that nature that
will resolve the 500 error issue that
Google search console is finding so
hopefully this has given you insight
into how to address the 500 server error
message that Google search console may
find with your website if you have any
questions or you are getting this error
on your particular website feel free to
drop a comment in the comment section
below
also don't forget to follow me on social
media I am on Twitter and Instagram at
almost Engr
