# 21 Days of Prayer and Fasting 

## Intro

Each year, the church that I attend does a fast and prayer at the beginning of the 
year. For the past two years, I have given up something during the fasting season
and kept track of it on my Trello board. 
This year, I have decided that I would blog about my experience and results 
from fasting. My goal is to update this post each day with the updates
for that particular day.

Why 21 days? It has been said that if you commit to doing or not doing something 
for 21 days in a row, that it will become a habit and you will be more inclined 
to continue doing or not doing it beyond the 21 days. I did a fast 
[last year for 21 days](../lifestyle/2019.08.15-21-days-for-a-new-habit) and some 
of those habits have stuck.

## Day 0

I know what you are thinking... why is he starting to count with 0 instead of 1? 
Computers start their counting of items with 0. However, humans usually 
start with 1, so programmers like myself have to add additional code in so that the 
counting will be acceptable to humans. Consider this day to be the day of 
preparation before entering the fast. 

My goals during this fast are to do the following:

### No Facebook 

Social media is addictive. Main reason that I am avoiding Facebook is because I login 
to that website more than the other social media accounts that I have. I did see a post 
that said to not use social media less but to use it more intently. I do plan on 
doing this more after the fast is over. For the fast though, I have found that when 
I cut out the most addictive social media habits, that I am able to do more of the 
things that I previously have put off to the side.

### Daily Commits to Github

As part of my personal branding strategy, I want to actually demonstrate that I do 
participate in the IT community and provide digitial contributions. That said, I
plan on contributing to making at least one commit to any of my repositories per day
during the fast. I know it seems excessive, but hear (or read) me out on this. 
Not all of my commits will be code related. The version control for my blog is 
on Github, so some of those commits will be new or updated content for my website. Other 
commits will be new or updated code that I have done. 

### No Meat, Little to No Cheese 

I have refrained from eating meat in the past. There were some noticable differences 
such as having a flatter stomach, going to The John more frequently, and being more 
energetic. In addition, I've watched documentaries that state that eating too much 
meat can have a negative impact on your body.
When it comes to cheese, I have noticed that eating a lot of it can change my 
regularity. Since the last fast, I have gotten away from eating it sparingly. Thus 
I want to get back in that habit of not eating it as frequently.

### Journal Daily

I have discovered in recent months that there is something about writing your 
thoughts and ideas out. Yes, there is the scripture in Habakkuk about writing the 
vision and making it plan. I also think that journaling allows us to clear our
heads from the things that we want to remember, but do not necessarily need to 
always keep readily on our minds. In other words, it allows you to "clean out 
the attic". 
I listened to a podcast one time, at the speaker was mentioning that we perceive 
the brain as more of a hard drive (i.e. permenant storage), when in actuality 
it is more like RAM (temporary storage). If you do not clean up the RAM
periodically, then you will run into problems. *On Linux systems, if you fill up 
the temporary storage, the OS might crash.*

### Two Day Rule for Exercising 

Matt D'Avella posted a video about what he refers to as the Two Day Rule. What is the 
Two Day Rule? In short, the rule is that you do not go more than two days between 
doing a workout. I have done this in the past, outside of a fasting period, and do 
agree that it does motivate you to be in better shape and allows you to have days 
off if your schedule does not allow workout time. For my implementation of the Two 
Day Rule, does not mean always working out. Sometimes I will substitute a true 
workout with a 30 minute walk, or a hike, or some other sort of physical activitiy. 

### Water, Tea, or Natural Juices

As I have gotten older, I rarely drink sodas. During this fasting season, I am 
going to make an effort to not drink anything that may contain High Fructose
Corn Syrup (HFCS) as a lot of products contain this substance. They say that HFCS 
is fine to consume in moderation. Only problem that I have is... 1) What is 
"moderation"? Is it once per week, once per quarter, once per year? 2) It is hard 
to have something in moderation, when it is contained in majority of the food 
and drink that we consume.

### Daily Prayer

As if this was obvious enough... heck it is in the title of the post.

## Updates

I will be posting my daily updates here so that you can follow along in my 
progress. Perhaps you have your own fast that you want to consider doing for the 
start of the year.
