---
title: Convert Images with FFMPEG
posted: 2026-05-19
author: Kenny Robinson
keywords: ffmpeg, web design, jpg, jpeg, png, images
---

THose that regularly create video content, should be familiar with FFMPEG. If you are not familiar 
with it, just know that it is the software behind a lot of the video editing software that 
exists today. 

I use FFMPEG to create videos for the content platforms that I use.  I found a new use case 
for FFMPEG that people do not often talk about. 

Convert images to a different format. 

As a web developer, I often get images in a format that are not necessarily the best for the web. 
Hint: png

JPG (JPEG) or WebP files are better for the web.  Their smaller file size allows for faster page 
loading times and reduced bandwidth. Now there are some developers who are also skilled at creating 
graphics that are small in file size. I am not one of those people. 

What I found is that you can use FFMPEG to convert images from one format to another. Here's the command 
that I use when doing so. 

```bash
fffmpeg -i myimage.png myimage.jpg
```

## The Breakdown

```bash
-i myimage.png
``` 

This part of the command is the input file that is to be converted. 

```bash
myimage.jpg
```

This part of the command is the output file to be generated from the input file.  The file type is 
inferred from the file name. Thus no additional options have to be specified.  You can make changes 
to the image by providing some additional commands to FFMPEG. In my case, I only need to change 
it to a different format, so this is the command that I use.

Just like with video files, FFMPEG can bulk convert images. You will have to have useful terminal 
or scripting skills to make this possible. An example command to 
convert all the png images to jpg files in a 
directory would be 

```bash
for image in *png
do
    ffmpeg -i "${image}" "${image}.jpg"
done
```

With the example above, the "jpg" file name will have "png" in it. While this is not ideal, is a 
quick and dirty way to covert a lot of images with the less amount of effort, and commands.