---
title: CrimeMapping.com C# Library
author: Kenny Robinson
posted: 2026-03-07
description:
keywords: montgomery, alabama, nuget package, c# library, software development, crimemapping.com
---

## Problem

Montgomery, Al Police Department uses crimemapping.com to provide crime information to the public.
crimemapping.com website does not have an API that developers can use for retriving information
from the website.  In their terms and conditions, they do state that they do not allow scraping the
data from their website, and they do make it difficult for this to be done. However, they do
allow for users to sign up for email alerts in both HTML and plain text formats, and the same
email address can be assigned for mutliple alerts.

## Solution

I decided to create a class library (or package for those who are familar with Java) that will allow
users to utilize the email alert functionality for the crimemapping.com website.

Users will have to sign up for alerts. Ideally this would be a dedicated email account that alerts are
sent to. When called upon, the code in the class library will read the email, parse the crime reports,
and save the information into a JSON file. Then users can use the JSON file for whatever purposes that
they choose.

More information and documentation about the Open Data library, is available in the project repository
located at
[https://github.com/almostengr/Almostengr.CrimeMappingCom.EmailParser](https://github.com/almostengr/Almostengr.CrimeMappingCom.EmailParser).

## Technologies Used

* Github
* Github Actions (automated testing and deployments)
* NuGet
* C# .NET 9
