---
title: "That's Unhealthy: Social Media Bad Habits"
posted: 2024-05-14
author: Kenny Robinson
category: lifestyle
keywords: social media, bad influence, social media addiction
---

There are many articles that talk about how social media has had detrimental effects on people. Some of these include being 
bullied online, the comparison trap, and "doing it for the Gram". 

I was having a conversation with someone the other day, and she asked why I did not view her IG Stories from the 
last several days. Those that know me, know I do a lot of lurking (meaning seeing the posts made by others, but not 
always liking or commenting on them) and post regularly. I responding by saying that I hadn't seen them and had not really 
been that interactive on social media. She continues to talk and makes a comment about how she does more IG Stories than 
Reels or Posts, because she can see exactly who has viewed the Stories. Without hesitation, I heard a voice that said 
"That's unhealthy". 

In the moment, I was not sure whether I should repeat the information that I was just told or let the other person continue 
to speak. I chose the latter because the individual was attempting to make a point. A point that I knew was bad mentally 
and sometimes physically, because of the previous research and articles that I had read about how using social media 
in the wrong way can impact us all negatively.

The conversation continued, and eventually I mentioned that the person should 
back away from the social media. In response, I got the strangest of looks for saying that followed by a monologue of why 
she would not be doing that. Thing is, other people can see the detriment and the impact that it is having, but because 
she had a blind spot for that area, she could not see that and got offended. 

Here are some of the negative sides of having an unhealthy relationship with social media, regardless of the 
platform.

## Calling Out Those Who Don't Look

Just because somebody is not seeing your content, does not mean they are bad or do not care about your content. As someone that 
is a content creator, I know that content may not always hit it big in the beginning, but then a trend comes along and 
then your content gets more in engagement after being posted 60-90 days than it did within the first 60 days.
There's no need to call someone out because they did not like or support your content. Sometimes the algorithm will not 
push your content to a large audience until it hits a certain threshold or matches relevant keywords or hashtags.
Other times, your content will not make it big at all because what you have posted results in you being shadow banned.

Applying Law 8 of The 48 Laws of Power to this, people that are truly interested in your content will like, comment, subscribe, follow, 
and all the other Call To Actions. You will not have to ask, beg, or plead to do so.  Same thing also applies to the 
quality of the content that you create. Bad content does not draw people in or encourage them to watch more of your content.

## Not Knowing When To Stop

While is great to stay up to date with others, one thing that I have realized that is that staying up to date 
means that you do not get other things done. Running a business, accomplishing life goals, traveling... all of 
these are better uses of your time. 

TikTok has caught on and knows how detrimental social media can be. One thing that I appreciate 
about it that other platforms do not do, is that after you have been on the app for a certain 
amount of time, between 1 to 2 hours, that the app will insert a video mentioning that you have 
been scrolling a while and probably should take a break. 

There have been times where I was aimlessly scrolling on TikTok. After about 30 minutes to an hour, a video comes up 
mentioning that you have been scrolling for a while and suggests that you take a break. I also notice that other platforms 
like those from Meta and YouTube, do not have anything like this integrated into their apps. Why? Because they know that 
the more you are on their app, the more revenue that they will make from ads and products that are being advertised to you. 
Also because you provide them with more information about the content that you would like to see shown to you. 

For me this is an immediate reality check and makes me pause to think what else I could be 
doing with my time instead of continuously scrolling on the app.
When you get to a point where you are just scrolling, you really want to ask yourself how can you use your time differently 
and more strategically. In my opinion, social media and watching TV are some of the most wasteful activities that we have in 
our current lives. 

Studies that have been done, have concluded that being and staying on social media apps, provide
a dopamine hit. Dopamine is the “feel good” hormone. Thus activities that trigger it, you want to 
often do. 

## Doing It For the Gram 

One thing that I have seen over time, is that some well known celebrities have this well known 
facade that they portray online. Then something major happens, and their popularity 
drops faster than a meteor out of the sky.

When you do or say things just for the popularity, and not because you have a genuine
interest or expertise in the topic, eventually you drop the ball. The ball gets dropped because 
you have to continuously come up with new content to stay relevant and to keep your 
audience engaged. 

As a content creator, this can be a time consuming task. That’s why those that follow me, see 
content about the projects that I am working on, the thoughts that I have about a particular subject, 
or jumping on a popular trend. In other words, show people who you are, and not have a facade
or made up persona that people see online, that isn’t the real you. It will get exhausting fast. 

## Conclusion 

Create good content, and follow those that create that interests you. Do not let others feel 
ashamed or coerce you into engaging with their content. That’s how you end up with content 
that you are not really interested in, showing up and adding noise to your feed. 
This noise is digital clutter, and digital clutter is like the clutter you see people on “Hoarders” 
have in their house. Difficult to move around and hazardous to your health to be in 
that environment.
