---
title: Createing My 15 Minute Citty
posted: 2024-10-16
author: Kenny Robinson
category: lifestyle
keywords: living, finances, 15 minute city
---

## Background

There is a concept that people have come to talk about that has some controversy. Some say that 
it is about government control. Others say that it is about being financial savvy. 

Talking about living in a 15 minute city. You can research the cons for this. However, I have 
intentionally made changes in my life that would allow for this to be possible. What are those 
changes you ask?

Now with my set up, my 15 minute city means that it is 15 minutes when using a car. Now this is not ideal, but 
because the city I live, Montgomery, is like many of other cities that do not have sufficient 
public transit nor does it have sidewalks that connect from one neighborhood to the other. Do 
not even get me started on why you have to cross a stroad to get to the grocery store where 
there are no sidewalks nor crosswalks.

## Time Management

What are the places that you go to the most? For the majority, that would be home, work, or a 
local restaurant or bar.  For me, it would be home and work. Based on how the city I live in 
is set up, work is within that 15 minutes. Sometimes it takes longer than 15 minutes to get to 
work, but that's usually because somebody or people have collided with each other on the interstate,
thus causing a traffic jam. 

The less time it takes for you to get from one point to another, the more time that you have to 
do other things. 

## Financial

When you drive less, you'll spend less time on car maintenance. Less driving, means that you 
vehicle will last longer. Thus you would not need to buy another one sooner. 

When I need food for dinner, I can stop by the grocery store that is on the way headed home. 
Since this is the case, you reduce the amount of food wasted because you got what was needed
when it was needed. The alternative, which is more expensive is buying a lot of food at once. 
Then you have to eat it within a given time frame or else it will go bad. Food waste is one 
of the easiest ways to "throw away money". 

As things continue to get more expensive to inflation and corporate greed,
we can easily save money by eliminating waste and reducing commuting expenses.

