---
title: "Review of \"The Healthiest Diet on the Planet: Why the Foods You Love-Pizza, Pancakes, Potatoes, Pasta, and More-Are the Solution to Preventing Disease and Looking and Feeling Your Best\""
posted: 2024-09-06
author: Kenny Robinson
category: lifestyle
keywords: healthy habits, food, healthy eating, healthiest diet
---

I "read" the audio book version of 
"The Healthiest Diet on the Planet: Why the Foods You Love-Pizza, Pancakes, Potatoes, Pasta, and More-Are the Solution to Preventing Disease and Looking and Feeling Your Best". 
That is a very long title and I will admit that the cover of the book was misleading as well. The cover of the book 
had a stack of pancakes on it. 
Below are some of the main points that I got from the book. 

## Meats, Cheese, and Eggs 

These foods should be avoided at all costs. It mentions how the cattle, fish, egg, dairy, and other industries 
have lobbied the FDA (Food Drug Adminstration) to the point that the group is basically corrupt. FDA knows
that large quantities of these foods are not good for the health of the people, but they refused to change 
the narrative for the people.

Often it is said that you have to meat in order to get protein or other essential nutrients. However, that 
information is incorrect by a long shot. Legumes (beans) and other vegetables do contain protein. 
This is sometihng that I knew before reading the book, but it was good to know that the research has been 
done that proves this. Also, the book calls out the groups and government agencies that make up the lies 
about what is good and what is not.

Book also explains how eating eggs is bad. Specifically in regards to cholesterol, it can raise bad 
cholesterol, LDL. This can cause people to have cardiovascular issues including hypertension, heart
disease, and others. 

## Starches

The book mentions how Japan, China, India, and other countries and cultures, have rice, potatoes, and other 
starches as a primary staple in their food. The average lifespan of those people, especially those in Japan, 
is over 90 years of age. When that is compared to the life expectancy of around 75 years old in America, 
that is a 15 year difference.

Obviously they are doing something right, but the trend in America says that is the wrong way to do things. 

One thing that I was taught at a young age was that too many starches is a bad thing. However, when you look at 
those that eat rice and potatoes as the core of their diet, they typically live longer lives than those 
that have meat at the core.

## Avoiding Seed Oils

I had heard about this before that seed oils are bad for you. This includes but is not limited to canola oil and 
vegetable oil. The research that was citied in this book confirms this. Prior to the 1950s, those oils did 
not exist. As time has gone on, deep fried foods and even non-fried foods started to contain these oils. 

Along with the increase in these oils, came the increase in the chronic health conditions and diseases. 