---
title: Find SQL Server Stored Procedure or Function by Contents
description: SQL Server does not give an easy way to find a stored procedure by its contents. I show you how this can be done. 
posted: 2021-11-26
category: technology
keywords: sql server, stored procedure, search sql, table functions
---

# Find SQL Server Stored Procedure or Function By Contents

## Problem

I was working making changes to a table function that is in a SQL Server database. This update was being made 
on an application that previously existed. Thus I did not have extensive knowledge of the database structure 
and each time I would add a feature to the application, I would have to research how things were previously 
done since we are using an existing database. 

One aspect of this was that I wanted to find whether a table function was being used by more than one 
stored procedure. A function called by a stored procedure?  Yes... do not ask. I did not write the original 
code, but am trying to make improvements where I can with the replacement applicatoin. That said, I did not 
know of a command that would provide me this information. 

## Solution

After doing some internet research for this type of problem, I did find a query that would get me what I needed. 
The query is: 

### The Query

```sql
select * 
from sys.sql_modules m
inner join sys.objects o
on o.object_id = m.object_id
where m.definition like '<text>'
```

Replace ```<text>``` with the name of or the contents of the procedure or function. This will return a result 
set that shows more detail than what you will need, including the object ID and then some. 

In my case, it returned 3 rows... the 2 stored procedures that called the function and the function itself.
This gave me the information that I needed to make sure that the change that I was about to make, would only 
impact the area of the application that I was working on. 
