---
title: Toastmasters Table Topics Questions
description: A list of questions that can be asked during the table topics section of Toastmasters meeting
posted: 2022-09-08
updated: 2022-10-04
category: resources
keywords: toastmasters, table topics, questions, public speaking, tower toastmasters
---

Table Topics are a portion of the Toastmasters meeting where individuals are asked a question and have to 
provide a response without preparing a speech. The activity is designed to give speakers opportunities to
improve their improptu speaking skills.

## Themed Table Topics

* [Homeowner Questions](/blog/2023.07.25-table-topics-toastmasters)
* [Miscellaneous Questions](#miscellaneous-table-topic-questions)
* [Random Questions](/blog/2023.10.10-toastmasters-table-topics)
* [School Questions](/blog/2022.08.02-table-topics-related-to-school)
* [Spring Questions](/blog/2023.04.17-toastmasters-table-topics)
* [Summer Questions](/blog/2021.06.29-table-topics-questions)

## Miscellaneous Table Topic Questions

1. What makes you who you are?
2. The wheels on the bus go round and round. Will your next vehicle be fully electric?
3. Will your next car be an EV (electric vehicle), hybrid, or gasoline powered?
4. What is something that you need to throw away, but cannot convince yourself to do so? Why?
5. If a tree falls in a forest and no one is around to hear it, what would you do with the lumber?
6. Is the country ready to let go of fossil fuels? Why or why not?
7. What is one thing that you would fix about schools in America?
8. You are a modern day Robin Hood. Name some things you take from the rich and give to the poor?
9. Name a restaurant that you refuse to eat at and why their food is so bad. 
10. Santa Claus typically lands his sled on the roof of houses. Where does he park if you live in an apartment or condo?
11. In your opinion, why does America does not use the Metric System as the default unit of measurement?
