---
title: Black Project 2025 Was A Flop
author: Kenny Robinson
posted: 2025-03-19
category: lifestyle
keywords: black project 2025, bp2025, scam likely
---

I have seen messages and participated in conversations about Black Project 2025. This post 
is to document the information discussed.

**"BP2025" is trademark and this post in no way intends on infringe upon that trademark.**

## Expense Calculations (in USD)

One one of the lives that I partipicated in, I did the calculations of the expenses that was able to be identified 
from public reords and those who were part of the Discord. 

 103500 - total recieved via GoFundMe
 (3105) - estimated 3% fee for GoFundMe (actual amount is 2.9% + 30 cents per transaction)
 (2000) - KYN cryptocurrency infrastructure and setup
  (250) - trademark filing for "BP2025"
  (800) - franchise fees to State of California
   (70) - LLC filing fees
 (1596) - Kajabi fees for KYN Academy (based on the highest amount of 399 per month for the service for 4 months (December 2024 through March 2025))
---------------------
  95679 - net after expenses that can be accounted for
(73813) - amount from BP2025 screenshot posted on March 14, 2025
---------------------
  21866 - amount unaccounted for

From what I have also learned, that some additional money was received by other means other than the 
GoFundMe. This may include, but is not limited to Paypal and CashApp. Thus we truly do not know how much money 
was given to the BP2025 Group, but the amounts above are what we are able to account for.

## Other Thoughts

Now that the creator, Aniya has decided to end the non profit as of March 17th. According to those that were in the Discord
server/chat, the Discord was turned off. However the Tiktok and Instagram pages for BP2025 are still active, but 
no new content has been posted to them.

One of the discussion points from the live stream that I participated in today, was why the creator was still 
posting BP2025 content on her personal profile. I responded by saying that with posting the content on her profile, 
she's getting the views and interactions on her profile, and as a result, the money for those views and interactions. 
Thus money going directly into her pocket and not into the finances of BP2025. 

With the forthcoming lawsuits that have been discussed, there may be some additional information that comes out. This includes 
but is not limited to where the unaccounted funds were spent and how benefitted from those funds. 

I did mention that there are some scenarios, that if made evident or public based on the information from the lawsuit, 
could result in Aniya and others that are involved, being sent to prison or paying fines.

Examples:

* money donated to the non-profit, but spent on personal expenses by Aniya
* non-profit and personal money being used out of the same bank account
* not properly documenting all non-profit expenses and donations
* money from BP 2025 being used inappropriately by her ad agency

Nobody wants to see anybody get prison time for this, but if laws have been broken, then let justice be served. 

## Next Step

Given that the non-profit has said to be dissolved, what happens to the rest of the money? That's the question that 
those who have donated are asking and have not received an answer to. Aniya did say that people who did donate via 
GoFundMe could request a refund.  They would receive a partial refund, as some of the money has already been spent.

Most want to see the money be put to good use, like donated to another non-profit that will actually do something 
positive with it in the Black community.
When a business or organization dissolves, something has to happen with the assets that remain. in the case of a business
those assets are disbursed amongst the owners. From one of the attendees of the live, the funds would have to go to the 
government or to another non-profit.

i do want to see how the lawsuit will play out. I know some wany Aniya to suffer badly financially, but depending on 
how things are structured, that may or may not happen.
