---
title: Review of "Good Sugar Bad Sugar"
posted: 2025-07-22
author: Kenny Robinson
category: lifestyle
keywords: nutrition, american food, health, personal health, book review
---

## Review and Thoughts

I listened to the audio book of "Good Sugar Bad Sugar: Eat yourself free from sugar and carb addiction" by Allen Carr. 
This book provided good insight into the food that we eat and the strategy of how to get away from the negative 
effects of eating large amounts of sugar. Listening to audio books has been beneficial, because I am still 
able to learn about various subjects, while performing other tasks. 

In more recent years, it has been claimed, though not necessarily verified that sugar in the brain is dimentia, 
sugar in the eye is glaucoma, and stored sugar is fat. With the Basic American Diet (BAD), a lot of food contains 
sugar. Combine that with the fact that a lot of the food that is sold, has chemicals and other things that 
most people cannot pronounce, and it makes a lot more sense about why Americans are some of the most obese people in the world. 

Doctors in America are taught to prescribe medication to address a person's complaints or issues. However, after 
reading this and other books that relate to health, when people take their own health into their own hands, 
the doctor's balk at the idea and insist that some medication should be taken instead. 

The book goes on about eating bad sugar, like baked goods, sodas, and processed juices that do not contain 
100 percent juice. Example of good sugar would be fruit.  There are some 
examples that compare how humans and animals in the wild eat. Book metioned that only humans, and the animals 
that they have domesticated, have a weight problem. Animals in the wild eat differently than those who are 
domesticated, because how they acquire their food and the food they choose to acquire is different. 

It goes on to describe that eating dried apricots is not good, because the dried fruit does not make you 
feel as full as the actual fruit that is hydrated. Another example that was mentioned was eating dried 
orange slices versus eating an actual orange. Because the fruit is dried, the sugars in the fruit is 
concentrated, and as a result, you end up consuming more sugar because it takes more of a dried fruit 
for you be full than hydrated fruit.

One of main points was the Will Power Method. Instead of gradually quitting something, like smokers do or 
using something as a replacement for the actual thing, the book insists that you quit bad sugar like 
cold turkey. Do it immediately. It uses the metaphor of an alcoholic going to meetings. 

## Some Habits

Some of the habits that I have started doing or have already been doing is only drinking water while at 
my desk. My primary job is a desk job. Thus I do not get a lot of physical activity. Thus drinking soda, 
juice, or other type of drinks is not good, because it will contribute to weight gain. I will say that 
I probably should be drinking more water than what I do drink, but the majority of what I drink during the 
week is water.

Another habit, especially after reading this book and reading what others have mentioned, is keeping 
dried goods like crackers, cookies, and breads to snack at my desk.  Definitely do not keep any 
sugary drinks or snacks at the desk.  what I do is when I really want to chew on something is to drink 
some water. 

Intermittent fasting is praised by some and hated by others. I do have a 12 hour window in which I eat, but 
I have considered reducing the side of that window to 8 hours. In addition, I do pay attention to whether
my body indicates that it is hungry or not. If it is, then I may skip a meal or eat at a different time. 
Also drinking plently of water, reduces the hunger sensation, as my stomach does not register 
as being empty.

Lastly, I typically take the stairs instead of the elevator. That way I get more steps in during the day. 
During lunch, I will walk around the building or in the parking deck to get more steps in. This helps 
with burning excess sugar.
