---
title: Let No Corrupt Communication
posted: 2025-09-29
author: Kenny Robinson
category: life, bible, scripture, charlie kirk
---

Those that follow me online, know that I post content about a variety of subject areas. Occasionally I post about 
my faith and beliefs. Also about situations and circumstances that I have had, and how I dealt with them.

After the shooting death of CK, a person posted that they attended church the following Sunday and their pastor 
was talking about CK from the pulpit, and she had to get up and leave the service. My video talked about how 
I attended a church and had left after a CK incident had taken place within the leadership of said church. 

For those that are wondering, I used to attend Church of the Highlands until mid-2020. In my video, I said that 
that sometimes the Spirit will move within you and cause discomfort because you are in a place where you should 
not be. I elaborated on the CK incident that took place with Highlands and how that the pastor supporting him 
caused and uproar within the church, and many Black people left after that situation.

Someone left the below comment on my video: 

> [CK] was a man of God. He wasn’t racist or homophobic or any of the other things people claim. There are 
> trans, black, and gay people, tons of them, saying what a good man he was because they met him and spent time 
> with him. Go do some research and I mean actual research and see for yourself. Don’t be fooled. I will not 
> sit idly while you suggest he was anything but a man of God.

I was about to immediately respond to this comment, but I did not. As the week went on, I kept hearing a specific 
verse and I heard that verse 3 times within a week. 

> Ephesians 4:29 - Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, 
> but that which is good to the use of edifying, 
> that it may minister grace unto the hearers.

I have learned that things done with numbers of biblical significance (e.g. 3, 7, 12, 70 etc) are something that 
you should really pay attention to because those things are indicative (not guaranteed) of the Spirit at work. 

The fact that the scripture showed up 1) in the Sunday church service I watched after the CK incident, 2) 
a podcast episode 3) as the scripture of the day when I was researching another scripture, indicated to me 
that this was a warning. 

Therefore I left that topic alone. I felt that comment was bait or lure. Instead I created a video saying that I
was given instructions to not talk about that comment how I really wanted to talk about that comment. 
Instead I posted about the scripture showing up multiple times, and that I was not going to speak about the topic 
how I really wanted to speak about it, because what I would have said would not have been positive.
