---
title: COVID-19 Booster Outcome
description: Documented my experience wth getting the COVID booster
posted: 2021-12-08
keywords: covid, covid-19, covid vaccine
---

I recently got the COVID Booster. Prior to getting the booster, I got the original shots about 
8 months prior. Initially I was not going to get the booster since I did not think that it was
necessary. However, after some additional consideration and given the number of activities 
that I had planned where I would be out around numbers of other people, I decided to 
proceed with getting it in addition to still wearing my mask. I have logged the outcome from 
each day after getting the booster.



## Disclosure

I share this information not to pursuade you to get the vaccine or booster, but to share 
my experience with already having done so. It is possible that you may have a completely 
different outcome when it comes to getting vaccinated. With COVID almost about to enter 
its junior year, we all have to do better to make this thing go away.

## Day 0

Got the injection after work. 
Could feel some soreness at the injection site. No major pain or anything of that nature. 
That night, I could not sleep on the side that I got the injection in as it was somewhat painful to 
the touch and was worse when I laid on it or applied constant pressure.

## Day 1

The day started off fine. Still had soreness at the injection site, but was not unbearable. 
When moving my arm to shoulder height or above, I could feel the soreness. Around midday, 
I began to have chills. This indicated to me that I was probably running a fever, but I 
did not have a thermometer to check my temperature at the time. Once I got home, I made 
a chicken-vegetable soup that had chicken, yellow rice, cabbage, carrots, yellow squash, 
and green squash and took a Tylenol. I did check my temperature and it was slightly elevated
around 99.5F, but nothing alarming. I also made an intentional effort to increase my 
water intake. 

## Day 2

Woke up with slight chills. Took my temperature and it read in the normal range. Thus I did not 
take a Tylenol since I did not think that I needed it.
As the day went on, the chills went 
away. Still had soreness at the injection site. I would only feel the soreness when I touched
the spot or when I raised by arm above shoulder level.

## Check Back

This will be a living post for the next several days. I will post daily updates with 
symptoms and outcomes. I will post a conclusion when I do the last update on this post.
