---
title: One Year as A Dog Parent
description: How has the previous year being a dog parent worked out. 
posted: 2022-03-21
keywords: dog, pets, parent, rat terrier, dog parent
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
category: lifestyle
imagealt: Buddy on his 'Gotcha Day'
---

Last year, when I got home a dog was waiting for me. Didn't ask for it. Wasn't ready for it. Dog was just there, 
hiding between mine and the neighbor's house. I give more details about his initial days with me in my 
[National Puppy Day 2021 post](/lifestyle/2021.03.23-national-puppy-day) and 
[becoming a dog parent](/lifestyle/2021.03.30-becoming-a-dog-parent).

## Territorial

The neighbor has a dog that roams freely about the neighborhood. He always comes back to their yard to rest 
and eat, and supposedly does not like to be chained up in the yard and not stay inside the house. Thing is with 
Buddy is that anytime he sees the neighbor's dog, even if the neighbor's dog is in his own yard, he starts
barking like crazy. 

There was one instance where my dog attempt to go across the street to the neighboring dog's yard, preassumably 
to mess with him, and I had to yell to get him to course correct. He caught a mouthful of words after that 
a knew that he messed up.

## Word Association, Continuous Training

One thing that I did not know, is that you have to continue training the dog. Having learned this, I try 
to reinforce the word association with ongoing training and routines. One routine that was added was saying 
"Bedtime". The dog knows that when I say that, it means he is to go outside, do his business, and then 
go to his kennel for the night. It used to be that bedtime was a hassle. 

Then I remember what this lady 
that used to baby sit my cousins once said... put the kids on a routine, and that way when they cry or 
complain, you will know what they want. Also establish routines. That way the baby knows that when 
Task 1 is done, then comes Task 2. For the dog, when I call him by name and say "bedtime", the rest 
of the process including him going into the kennel is smooth and most of the time I don't have to 
say anything else.

## Control Human Food Consumption

Any time myself or the wife is eating, the dog shows up wanting some. Close 
the microwave door, dog comes running into the kitchen. 
Refrigerator door opens and closes, dog is lurking around the corner.
Plastic bag making noise, even if it is a grocery bag, dog is motioning that he wants some.
What we have had to do now is put rules in place. 
When the dog doesn't eat his own food, then he doesn't get any human food. The dog does not like this.
Wife would feed him everytime that she would eat. I had to explain to my wife that if you consistently give him 
human food, then he wont eat his own food. It's like being given desert before the main course... you 
not going to want to eat the main course after desert. That was met with resistance, but eventually 
she understood what I was talking about and agreed with my perspective. 


