---
title: Found My Niche on TikTok
posted: 2022-09-12
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
category: lifestyle
keywords: social media, tiktok, online presence, online branding, personal branding
---

## Back Story

I have been on 
<a href="https://tiktok.com/@almostengr" target="_blank">TikTok</a>
for some time now. One day someone posted a video about how the outlets in 
his garage or shed were installed upside down. The poster went as far to use derogatory name to refer
to the electrican and that he did not understand how someone could be incompentent to do the work 
in such a manner.

In response, I did a stitch of the post and responded why outlets that are installed upside down are 
safer than those that are installed right side up. For the record, I am talking about 120 Volt outlets 
that are used on the North American electrical grid. 

Let's just say that video got a bigger response than what I was expecting. At the writing of this post, 
the video has 2.2 million views, 275 thousand likes, and 10 thousand shares. That's a lot for the video 
being up for almost 3 weeks. 

## People Want Knowledge

From making videos online, to running this blog, and now to having decent 
<a href="https://tiktok.com/@almostengr" target="_blank">TikTok</a>
following, what I have found
is that people want knowledge. On 
<a href="https://youtube.com/robinsonhandyandtechnologyservices" target="_blank">YouTube</a>,
that knowledge is typically in longer form. On TikTok and IG, 
that is shorter form.

After figuring this out, I decided that my 
<a href="https://tiktok.com/@almostengr" target="_blank">TikTok</a>
platform will be providing answers and perspectives
to videos that others have posted. The videos that I have posted since the outlet video have not gotten 
as many views or likes, but those that have commented on said videos have mentioned that they are learning. 

Some of the comments that I have received are asking questions about my original response or even 
doing demonstrations of what I mention in the original response. That said, probably need to have a dedicated
setup or make the YouTube be able to do double duty to meet the needs. 

## Next Steps

I have received suggestions on ways to improve my videos going forward from another TikTok-er who has 
been using the platform longer than I have. Lot of this is stuff that I have not known, because of the 
fact I did not have the audience back then that I have now.

Some of the suggestions were

* use cover photos on videos
* add captions
* include relevant keywords and hashtags in the description
* monetize videos
* grouping videos into playlists


