---
title: Eating with Braces
posted: 2022-07-15
category: lifestyle
keywords: braces, dental work, eating
---

For about the last couple of years, my dentist has been saying that he was concerned because of 
my under bite. Add to that, one of my wisdom teeth did not grow in straight. So much for being 
the smart teeth. The wisdom tooth that grew in sideways, pushed the other teeth on that row
forward. Some of the teeth actually got out of alignment because of the sideways wisdom tooth.
Long story short, my teeth are all out of alignment. 

From this and other reason, I agreed to go ahead and get braces.
Rather get them now than later let things continue and potentially get worse. op. 

## How Bad Is It?

As I write this post, I have had the braces in for almost a week now. I only have them on the top 
at the moment as the ones on the bottom will come at a later date. 
I will definitely say that it changes things. 
My under bite was extensive enough that I could touch the braces that they put on the top 
with my teeth on the bottom. The orthodontist put spacers on my last molars at the top and 
to prevent me from knocking off the brackets with my teeth.

This is when I then found out that one side of my mouth is really out of alignment to the point
that I can close my mouth all the way on my right side, but cannot close it all the way 
on the left side. On occasion, my jaw does pop it and may be related to that. I did have one 
occurrence where my jaw popped loudly, but I did not have any pain. I definitely will be 
mentioning this given that I think it may be a factor in my teeth touching on the right 
side but not on the left. 

## Flossing

I am not a fan of flossing. However, with braces you have to floss more than you want to because 
food gets stuck all over your mouth. Had some Chinese food one day and some of the rice was 
stuck between my cheek and the top of my braces. Had to put my finger in my mouth (washing them
first of course) to get the rice unstuck. 

The hygienist did tell me about the floss plackers that are specifically designed for 
people with braces. 
They are like the normal floss plackers, but they have a real thin side that is designed to fit 
under your braces. Normal plackers are usually to thick to do this. I did manage to get a pack
of these and noted that they were more expensive than the normal plackers. 

## Food

Eating has definitely changed. Things like chips, crackers, and other hard items are impossible 
to eat because you have to chew with your back teeth. Trying to chew with your front teeth 
is painful and depending on the food, might brake off your braces. 

It also takes me far longer to eat now because I have to break my food up in to pieces before 
I can eat it since I can't bite with my front teeth (incisors). 

Some times the soft foods like beans have hurt because the pain does radiate from the front to 
other nearby teeth. 

I am not big on candy. That said, basically every website, pamplet, and video that I have 
watched in relation to the foods that you can and cannot eat with braces, basically say that 
no candy is acceptable, especially if it is sticky. This is probably a good thing as most 
candy in America has some sort of artificial sugar and higher than normal consumption of 
could lead to diabetes and more. 

I will say that because it takes more effort to eat, and that eating the wrong thing could 
make the treatment take longer to complete, I have eaten less snacks this week than what 
I normally do. 

## Conclusion

My typical 3 minute routine of brushing teeth is now more like a 5 to 10 minute one. Flossing, 
mouth washing (to get what the floss missed), brushing, and still being paranoid about food being 
left on my teeth is now the routine. May need to make a cookbook or post recipes here 
that are good for people with braces. Anywho, it is estimated that I will have these 
for about two years. 
