---
title: Nissan CVT Transmission
description: My thoughts on Nissan CVT transmissions based on my experience
posted: 2022-03-10
keywords: car talk, transmission, cvt, nissan
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
---

I see a lot of articles and videos that talk about how Nissan CVTs (Continuously Variable Transmissions) are trash and 
as an owner of one I wanted to share my thoughts.

At the writing of this article, my Altima has 129K miles on the odometer. My car was one of the first ones to come 
out with the transmission that was redesigned for the 5th generation Altima. 
Within the first year, I had to take it back to the dealership to get the 
transmission reprogrammed twice because of two different Technical Service Bulletins (TSBs) that were issued by 
Nissan in relation to the transmission. 

## Early Days

Was somewhat freaked when I first got the car. Seeing the experiences that others had, it was clear that there was a 
defect somewhere, but wasn't sure where. Having a Nissan and paying attention to how they do things, I realized that 
they have an approach that is similar to other Japanese manufacturers, modeled after 
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Toyota_Way" target="_blank">The Toyota Way</a>. 

Build it, test it, send it out in the real world. If there are issues in the real world, then analyze those and then 
repeat the process. This is similar to the SCRUM metholodgy that programmers use today when building and maintaining 
software. The 5th generation Altima was rolled out in May of that year. Mine was built in July of the same year. 
The members of <a href="https://nissanclub.com" target="_blank">Nissan Club</a> that had got theirs 
before mine, had major issues. Some of which, Nissan bought them back because of the transmission issues. 

## Bad Math

Now I'm not a Nissan engineer, but I do believe that there was some bad math or calculations that were done between 
what was done on their test course and what was experienced in reality. As a result, real world tests failed and 
resulted in destroyed transmissions. Belts popping in transmissions with less than 2K miles, that the TCM 
had a bad math algorithm, and under certain conditions, that algorithm would send the transmission back to its
maker (because Nissan requires that dealers send warranty repair parts back to Nissan for analysis). The TSB fixes 
for the transmissions were to correct that bad path. For those that are not as technicially inclined, they basically 
applied a software update to the transmission in order to prevent more lawsuits or buybacks.

## Change The Transmission Fluid

Now I recognize that there are some situations that transmissions in Nissans do fail. The majority of the failures
that I have heard about were
due to people failing to change the transmission fluid at the appropriate interval. My thoughts 
are that the cones that are inside the CVT transmission, can operate within a particular viscosity range of transmission
fluid.

As the fluid becomes dirty and breaks down over time, they do not provide the correct amount of pressure to the 
cones, thus keeping tension on the belt or chain (V6 engines have chains, 4-cylinders have belts) becomes more difficult. 
In the worse case scenario, too much pressure is applied to the belt, and as a result the belt pops. Not enough pressure 
could be applied to the belt, and as a result the transmissions slips or in the worse case comes off the cones 
completely and doesn't break.

## Manual Transmissions

When manuals were more common, you didn't have to change fluid in them because they didn't have any. There are some 
exceptions, like those that use brake fluid or clutch fluid to control the clutch. You would know something was 
up because you need both of those systems to drive. In addition, the one that uses brake fluid to control the clutch, 
if the fluid went low, the brake light on the dash would come on indicating a problem.

It seems to me that not changing the fluid in transmissions is still a thing today. Some that manufacturer geared automatic
transmissions do not have a problem with theirs because a geared design is more tolerant to pressure changes than a 
a cone design. However a gear design can fail just as easily as a CVT because they are now making the geared 
transmissions with 10 or 12 gears and have just as many parts when you combine the gears, clutches, friction plates, 
and more. 

## My Keys for Longevity

These are my thoughts on how to get the longest life out of your CVT: 

* get the fluid changed per your manual's service interval
* you can drive it hard, contrary to what Scotty Kilmer may say, but do not always act like you are in a NASCAR race
* monitor when TSBs are released. Manufacturers do not have to notify you about these, but they usually have them 
posted somewhere that a customer can access.
* when a TSB is released, take your car to the dealership and let them know that you want that TSB performed. 
If your vehicle is still under warranty, then the repair work will be free.
