---
title: Driving More Efficiently
posted: 2022-03-15
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
keywords: gas prices, gas, fuel effiency, e85, regular gas, flex fuel
category: lifestyle
---

With the conflict going on between Russia and Ukraine (really Russia bullying Ukraine), the 
cost of gas continues to go up. This is similar to how gas went up during the 2008 recession and
housing crisis. During that time, I was in college. Gas got above the $1 USD mark and 
never looked back. In places on the west coast, 
I remember seeing photos of gas being over $5 per gallon. Here are some of the things that I am 
doing or consider doing in an effort to save on gas with my vehicles.

## Using E85

One of the vehicles that I own can run on E85, but designed for regular gasoline. This type 
of vehicle is called Flex Fuel vehicle. There are a number of things that I have noticed with 
driving on E85 and regular gas. 

### Price

The price for E85 is lower than that for Regular gas at every gas station that I have been to. In
some cases, that price is 15 cents cheaper. In other places, it can be up to 50 cents cheaper. 

### Fuel Economy

When using E85, I do notice that the fuel economy is less than when using regular gas. On the 
contrary, E85 has higher octane, meaning that your engine makes more power when running it. In 
my truck, using E85 and driving at city speeds, results in the truck going into 4 cylinder mode
more often once the crusing speed has bene reached. 4 cylinder mode means that less
gas is being used to run the vehicle instead of using all 8 cylinders.

## Limiting Left Turns

I had read some time ago that UPS designs their routes so that they have little to no left turns. 
By eliminating or having few left turns, this allows them to get packages delivered 
faster and to save money. Packages are delivered faster because they are not waiting at red 
lights to make left turns or for cross traffic to clear. I can agree with this. At some of the 
intersections in my city, the major roads only allocate 30 seconds maximum for left turns when 
the entire phase for a signal may be 1.5 minutes and entire cycle being 3 minutes.

I have started do this where I have and sometimes it does make you go a bit out of the way, but 
it does keep you moving and in some cases you get to your destination a few minutes earlier.
The most beneficial of no left turns are at protected left turn intersections. 

### Protected Left Turn

A Protected Left Turn is a lane that has a designated turn lane and has a phase that allows 
traffic turning left to turn while opposing traffic stops. For me, I try my best to avoid 
these type of left turns, even if that means running my errands in a different order. 

Left turns that have protected and unprotected phases or that have unprotected phases, then 
I still will make a left at these intersections.

### Example

Why are this gas wasters? Lets say a traffic light has a cycle time of 2 minutes, or 1 minute 
for each street. Then Protected Left Turn for each street might get up to 25 percent, or 
15 seconds, for that streets max time for the cycle. That means you and everybody turning left
has 15 seconds to get through the green, and if you do not, then you have to wait another almost
2 minutes to get another opportunity. 

<a href="https://www.vcalc.com/wiki/vCalc/Cost+to+Idle" target="_blank">vcalc.com</a> has a 
Cost to Idle calculator. The formula that they use is 

```text
fuel cost = fuel consumption rate (gallon per hour) * cost of fuel (dollars per gallon) * idle time (minutes)
```

Using the example above, that means 

```text
fuel cost = 0.6 * 3.96 * 2.0 = 0.08 USD
```

That means it costs 8 cents each time that you wait on a protected
left turn, not to mention the 2 minutes that you are waiting.

Vehicles with bigger engines will have a higher consumption rate than those with small engines 
and hybrids. Also the length of the traffic light cycle will change the fuel cost.

## Traffic Patterns and Routes

I have different routes that I take to get to different places. Sometimes those routes are not 
the most perferred routes because they go through residential neighborhoods or the road least
travelled.

For example, when paying attention to and experimenting, I have found that a stretch of road has 
approximately 8 traffic lights on a section of the road. When the first light in the series changes
green, if traffic moves about 45-50 MPH, then traffic will get caught at light number 7, and then 
get caught at light number 8 because there's usually a delay with traffic pulling off. Now 
on the same stretch, and driving about 60+ MPH, you can get through all 8 lights in that series. 
Thus you have saved one stop and shorted the idle time. With this suggestion, I am not saying 
do anything illegal, but adjust your driving so that you can better time the lights when 
they are green.

## Tire Pressure

Check your tire pressures and make sure that they are within the manufacturer's specifications. 
With a smaller vehicle, it is not always noticable. However with a bigger one, it can be more 
easily noticable with the drop in fuel economy and the amount of gas pedal required to get 
up to speed. 
When doing long drives, if the tire pressure on the truck is slightly under inflated, the 
vehicle will not go into 4 cylinder mode on some stretches of road that it would go into that 
mode when the tires are properly inflated. I believe this has to do with the increased 
resistance that a under inflated tire has and thus higher engine load is needed to keep the 
vehicle moving even when all other factors are the same.

For my vehicles, I actually inflate them slightly over spec. The rason is that I notice that 
the vehicle has a tendency to handle slightly better (less resistance to wind when passing an
an 18-wheeler). This result doesn't apply to every vehicle, thus I do not suggest this for 
everyone. 

## Don't Race to The Red Light

Some people stay on the gas pedal until the absolute last moment and then hit the brakes. Doing this 
as if them going full speed, will make the light change faster, which is far from the case. 
In actuality, doing this burns more gas because the gas that you have used to get up to and 
maintain speed, then you lose all that speed by stopping. 

What I do is when I see a red light ahead, I take my foot off the gas completely because that light 
will most likely not turn gree before I get to it. By taking your foot off the gas, some vehicles 
will actually stop injecting gas into the engine and keep the engine running off of the 
intertia from the wheels being in motion. Once you slow down to a certain speed, then injectors 
then turn back on to keep the engine running.

## Conclusion

These are just some of the tactics that I use and have made adjustments to my driving. Have I seen
any fuel savings? Not sure. Reason being is that I try to drive like this habitutally, instead 
of only doing this when gas prices are higher than normal. 
