"# How To: Synchronize files between two or more Windows computers<br /><br />Do you have two or more computers running Windows?  If you do, do you hate having to backup or keep files synchronized on both computers?  Well we have a solution for you.<br /><br />I know what you’re thinking: I can use Google Drive (formerly Google Docs) or DropBox or SkyDrive or some other online file storage service and just download it from there when I need it.<br /><br />While that’s true, but everyone has files that they want to keep classified and off the internet.<br /><br />So how do you sync files on your Windows computer the easy way.  Use SyncToy!  SyncToy is from Microsoft.  The features it has includes: allows you to sync the files on two or more computers with a central computer over your wired or wireless network, allows you to exclude files, and allow you overwrite files in an existing location.  It works with Windows XP or later and has a 32 and 64-bit versions.  If you use the sync feature, it will compare the files in directories on both computers.  When a difference is detected it will update the computer that contains the older version of the file or that does not have the file.  Best of all, it’s free to download and use!<br /><br />Some members of the BBIT team have been using SyncToy to keep the files between their laptop and desktop synced and to have backup copies of their documents, music, etc in case one computer were to crash or be stolen.  It has been stated that it could have more functionality, but it does get the job done.  If you have a lot of files or large files (i.e. videos, movies, etc), we would recommend that you do the syncing overnight or when you aren’t in the office.<br /><br />If you would like to download SyncToy, go to the download page located at http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=15155.<br /><br />**Posted: 2015-06-28 08:46:27** <br /><br />**Updated: 2019-03-08 23:33:47** <br /><br />
