# Privacy Policy / Terms of Use<br /><br />Your privacy is critically important to us. At The Almost Engineer we have a few fundamental principles:<br />* We don’t ask you for personal information unless we truly need it. (We can’t stand services that ask you for things like your gender or income level for no apparent reason.)* We don’t share your personal information with anyone except to comply with the law, develop our products, or protect our rights.* We don’t store personal information on our servers unless required for the on-going operation of one of our services.* In our blogging products, we aim to make it as simple as possible for you to control what’s visible to the public, seen by search engines, kept private, and permanently deleted.<br />The Almost Engineer (“The Almost Engineer”) operates several websites including thealmostengineer.com. It is The Almost Engineer’s policy to respect your privacy regarding any information we may collect while operating our websites.<br />## Terms By accessing this website, <a href="http://thealmostengineer.com">thealmostengineer.com</a>, you agree to be bound and operate by the terms, conditions, and policies listed in this agreement. If you do not agree with the terms listed here, please discontinue use of this website.<br />## Disclaimer Information and resources that are provided The Almost Engineer website, are provided on an 'as is' basis. The Almost Engineer makes no warranties, expressed, written, or implied that the information provided on this website will work or is accurate.<br />## Website Visitors Like most website operators, The Almost Engineer collects non-personally-identifying information of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference, referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. The Almost Engineer’s purpose in collecting non-personally identifying information is to better understand how The Almost Engineer’s visitors use its website.<br />The Almost Engineer also collects potentially personally-identifying information like Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for logged in users and for users leaving comments on its website. The Almost Engineer only discloses logged in user and commenter IP addresses under the same circumstances that it uses and discloses personally-identifying information as described below, except that blog commenter IP addresses and email addresses are visible and disclosed to the administrators of the blog where the comment was left.<br />## Gathering of Personally-Identifying Information Certain visitors to The Almost Engineer’s websites choose to interact with The Almost Engineer in ways that require The Almost Engineer to gather personally-identifying information. The amount and type of information that The Almost Engineer gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. Those who engage in transactions with The Almost Engineer – by purchasing website development services, for example – are asked to provide additional information, including as necessary the personal and financial information required to process those transactions. In each case, The Almost Engineer collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor’s interaction with The Almost Engineer. The Almost Engineer does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. And visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities.<br />## Aggregated Statistics The Almost Engineer may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. The Almost Engineer may display this information publicly or provide it to others. However, The Almost Engineer does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below.<br />## Protection of Certain Personally-Identifying Information The Almost Engineer discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only to those of its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on The Almost Engineer’s behalf or to provide services available at The Almost Engineer’s websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. Some of those employees, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using The Almost Engineer’s websites, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. The Almost Engineer will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information to anyone. Other than to its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations, as described above, The Almost Engineer discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only in response to a subpoena, court order or other governmental request, or when The Almost Engineer believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of The Almost Engineer, third parties or the public at large. If you are a registered user of an The Almost Engineer website and have supplied your email address, The Almost Engineer may occasionally send you an email to tell you about new features, solicit your feedback, or just keep you up to date with what’s going on with The Almost Engineer and our products. We primarily use our various product blogs to communicate this type of information, so we expect to keep this type of email to a minimum. If you send us a request (for example via a support email or via one of our feedback mechanisms), we reserve the right to publish it in order to help us clarify or respond to your request or to help us support other users. The Almost Engineer takes all measures reasonably necessary to protect against the unauthorized access, use, alteration or destruction of potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information.<br />## Cookies A cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor’s computer, and that the visitor’s browser provides to the website each time the visitor returns. The Almost Engineer uses cookies to help The Almost Engineer identify and track visitors, their usage of The Almost Engineer website, and their website access preferences. The Almost Engineer visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using The Almost Engineer’s websites, with the drawback that certain features of The Almost Engineer’s websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies.<br />## Business Transfers If The Almost Engineer, or substantially all of its assets, were acquired, or in the unlikely event that The Almost Engineer goes out of business or enters bankruptcy, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of The Almost Engineer may continue to use your personal information as set forth in this policy.<br />## Ads Ads appearing on any of our websites may be delivered to users by advertising partners, who may set cookies. These cookies allow the ad server to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement to compile information about you or others who use your computer. This information allows ad networks to, among other things, deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. This Privacy Policy covers the use of cookies by The Almost Engineer and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers.<br />## Privacy Policy Changes Although most changes are likely to be minor, The Almost Engineer may change its Privacy Policy from time to time, and in The Almost Engineer’s sole discretion. The Almost Engineer encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its Privacy Policy. Your continued use of this site after any change in this Privacy Policy will constitute your acceptance of such change.<br />## Liability Your use of or following the steps listed on The Almost Engineer website or videos, is done so at your own risk. If you are unsure or not certain on how to complete a project, it is recommended that you contact a professional that can complete the task for you.<br />Portions of this policy were taken from <a target="_blank" href="http://www.Automattic.com">Automattic.com</a> as provided under a Creative Commons Sharealike License.<br />## Additional Credits Social media icons were designed by <a href="http://alfredocreates.com/">http://alfredocreates.com/</a><br /><br /><br />**Posted: 2015-06-24 17:06:51**<br /><br />**Updated: 2019-06-26 21:37:19**<br /><br />
