# About<br /><br />!(images/public://SAM_2423-f008473.png)<br /><br /><br />**REASONS WHY I BLOG**<br />Kenny started passively blogging in 2011 after watching presentation that stated that every software developer should have a blog. Eventually that blogging habit faded. Fast forward to 2018, Kennyattended a gardening workshop that mentioned that every gardener should have a journal. It eventually occurred to him that hecould start blogging about hisgardening successes and failures and use that as his gardening journal.<br />Kenny'sday job is working as an IT professional. He hasyears of experience in building web based applications and providing software support. When you create or maintain software for a living, often times you will reuse the same code over in multiple projects. By using a blog, you can search for that code snippet and copy and paste it in. In addition, it assists other developers with their coding projects, as it may be exactly what they are looking for.<br />Gardening started as a hobby for Kenny. After having some seasons of little success and being able to literately taste the fruits of my labor, Kennydecided to expand his greenthumb skill set. Thanks to social media, Kennyfound other that some friends and former classmates also had an interest in gardening and they were looking for help. After attending a class at a local urban farm about gardening, it occurred to him that a blog could be used as a journal to track my successes and failures.<br />Since then, he hasbeen blogging hisgardening and technology experiences and mishaps for several reasons: 1) you learn from your past mistakes 2) others can learn from your mistakes before they make them 3) you will forget what you previously did, but a quick search of the blog will provide the refresher that you need to keep going.<br /><br />**"THE ALMOST ENGINEER" EXPLAINATION**<br />If you have read this far down the page, you probably are wondering how did Kennycome up with The Almost Engineer name. Kennyworks (and according to some live in) in the engineering-related field of Computer Science, has greatproblem solving skills, and enjoys fixing thingsinstead of paying someone else to do it for him. However Kenny has a Business degree from the University of Alabama (Roll Tide!) instead ofan engineering degree, thus *almost* being an engineer.<br /><br />**GARDENING INFORMATION**<br />Information about the garden is based on conditions of USDA growing Zone 8a, located in the southeastern United States. That being said, the recommendations and suggestions that are made on thisblog are for this growing zone and are not guaranteed towork in other growing zones. However, please do feel free to experiment in your garden and comment on your experiences.<br /><br />In between blog posts, you can catch me on <a target="_blank" href="http://twitter.com/almostengr">Twitter</a>, <a target="_blank" href="http://instagram.com/almostengr">Instagram</a>, <a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4HCouBLtXD1j1U_17aBqig">YouTube</a>, in the garden, or on the keyboard.<br /><br /><br /><br />**Posted: 2015-06-24 17:05:52**<br /><br />**Updated: 2019-06-26 19:59:49**<br /><br />
