"# Raspberry Pi Traffic Light Control<br /><br />!(images/public://20170413_140903.jpg)<br /><br />The purpose of this project is to educate children about the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields. Through the use of low cost devices and effective teaching, by grouping these subjects together, children are able to associate what they are learning with interactions with everyday items. For example, most children are aware of the purpose of a traffic light, but most are not aware of a traffic lights' internal workings. This project is designed to educate children by explaining the workings of the ""black box"" of a traffic light. This project targets the ""T, E, and M"" of ""STEM"" by using electronic circuits for controlling the lights, software for controlling the electronic circuits, and mathematical calculations for making timing decisions.<br /><br />This project is intended to be used with two traffic lights. Northbound (NB) light has a left turn yellow and green arrows in addition to the standard 3-segement light. Eastbound (EB) light only has a standard 3-segment light. It is possible to only connect one traffic light assembly to the board as all code will still function.<br /><br />Code for this project is downloadable from our GitHub page at <a href=""https://github.com/bitsecondal/raspitraffic-stem"" target=""_blank"">https://github.com/bitsecondal/raspitraffic-stem</a>. <br /><br />**Posted: 2017-04-13 09:25:43** <br /><br />**Updated: 2018-02-03 22:47:29** <br /><br />
"# Raspberry Pi Traffic Light Control<br /><br />!(images/public://20170413_140903.jpg)<br /><br />The purpose of this project is to educate children about the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields. Through the use of low cost devices and effective teaching, by grouping these subjects together, children are able to associate what they are learning with interactions with everyday items. For example, most children are aware of the purpose of a traffic light, but most are not aware of a traffic lights' internal workings. This project is designed to educate children by explaining the workings of the ""black box"" of a traffic light. This project targets the ""T, E, and M"" of ""STEM"" by using electronic circuits for controlling the lights, software for controlling the electronic circuits, and mathematical calculations for making timing decisions.<br />This project is intended to be used with two traffic lights. Northbound (NB) light has a left turn yellow and green arrows in addition to the standard 3-segement light. Eastbound (EB) light only has a standard 3-segment light. It is possible to only connect one traffic light assembly to the board as all code will still function.<br />Code for this project is downloadable from our GitHub page at https://github.com/bitsecondal/raspitraffic-stem.<br /><br /><br />**Posted: 2017-04-13 09:25:43** <br /><br />**Updated: 2019-03-08 23:33:35** <br /><br />
