"# Liftmaster 8500 Review, 1 Year Later<br /><br />**Engineer Level: Amateur (Beginner)** <br /><br />1 year ago, I installed the Liftmaster 8500 on my garage door.  I cover the pros and cons that I have experienced during that time.  How is the Liftmaster 8500 performing a year it has been installed?  I will show you.  One year ago, I installed this Liftmaster 8500 garage door opener.  I bought it online and it came with everything I needed including the MyQ internet gateway.  <br /><br /><br />The first pro about this garage door open is that it is very quiet.  If I open the garage door while I'm on the other side of the house, I barely hear it  open.  The deadbolt that comes with the door actually is lower than the motor itself when it is  running.  <br /><br />The second pro with this is that the garage door opener is very easy to install.  If you're like me and you already have a garage door in place but just didn't have the opener,  this kit can be done very easily and quickly as a DIY task on a Saturday.  I had all of the necessary tools required to install it including the drill, some pliers,  may need a hammer or two as well.  I did have to mount some 2 by 4s to attach the opener as well as some of the sensors  to.  But outside of that, everything that was needed came with the kit.  <br /><br />The third pro for this garage door opener is that it came with the MyQ internet gateway.  The MyQ app allows you to open the garage door remotely so that you don't have to be  in the physical presence of the door.  This is great when you have to allow somebody in whether they are dropping off packages  or need to be let in the house like kids after school and you don't want to give them a key.  This particular garage door opener model support battery backup.  So if the power were to ever go out or you live in an area where the power frequently  goes out, you're always able to get inside of your garage if you have the battery backup.  Now I did not purchase the battery backup as my power is pretty consistent in staying  on majority of the time.  <br /><br />The fourth pro is that you're able to install this on the side of the garage door opener  instead of overhead.  The thing about being able to install it on the side of the garage door is that it leaves  more ceiling space for you to be able to do other things including installing overhead  lights or installing a ceiling fan.  In my case, I do have a ceiling fan in my garage.  I do live in the south, so in the summer time the garage gets pretty hot and the fan becomes  very essential in those time especially when you're working on a car or working on something  else in the garage.  Now to talk about the cons of this particular garage door model.  <br /><br /><br />The first con is that the garage door light does not always turn on when you go to open  the door.  At many of the times, I'll press the door open and I dont' know if it is due to network  interference or radio interference, but the light does not always turn on.  However once the door reach the top of the travel path, the light turns on. Now as I mentioned, this particular model comes with a remote light.  Meaning the light itself is not wired directly into the garage door system.  So just like the remote that you have in your car to open the garage door, the garage door  remotely controls the light using radio frequency.  Now it is possible that there is some sort of interference that sometimes occurs during  that time of day when I open to leave to go out to go to work.  However this is not always observed.  <br /><br />The second con that I have with this garage door opener is that the MyQ app will not tell  you when the door is partially open.  I've tried this on many scenarios and basically with the app and when you open the door and  it stops midway, or you intentionally stop it midway, or it stops midway on it's own,  the app wiil show in the history log that the door is registered into an unknown state.  The only problem with this is that the app cannot notify you of an unknown state.  It can only notify you of an open or closed state.  I've searched the MyQ forums as well as the Liftmaster forums, as well as the Chamberlain  forums, and none of them indicate a recommendation on how to address this issue.  The only response that I consistently saw was that they are working on a fix to include  this type of functionality.  However that was a year, maybe a year and a half ago and I haven't seen any improvement  in this request since then.  <br /><br />The third con that I have with this garage door opener is that it doesn't always immediately  close when using the MyQ app.  Often times I don't use the garage door opener that's available.  The clicker button if you will.  Instead I'll use to for the app functionality.  When I do press the button immediately after it opens to close the door right back, then  door often doesn't get the response.  However, the MyQ app shows on the screen that the door is actually going down while it is  not.  So this is a con that seems to consistently come up.  What I've found that I've had to do is to wait maybe twenty to thirty seconds after  the door fully opens and the MyQ app registers that the door is fully open.  Then close the door at that time.  <br /><br /><br />Overall, this garage door opener is a great purchase.  However the MyQ app does leave more to be desired in terms of functionality especially  in security area of notifying you when the door is partially open.  If this video has been helpful to you, please like and subscribe to our YouTube channel.  Also follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter at almostengr.<br /><br />**Posted: 2018-02-03 10:00:01** <br /><br />**Updated: 2019-06-13 21:14:45** <br /><br />
