---
posted: 2019-11-05
updated: 2020-07-15
category: Technology
---

# Automate Unattended Upgrades on Ubuntu 

## Summary

I cover how  to set up your Ubuntu system to automatically update itself so that you have less maintenance to perform. 

## Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/edjxjL-ft4g" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Video Transcript

what's going on YouTube family so in
this video I'm gonna actually to set up
the automatic updates using unattended
upgrades on Ubuntu 18.04 so let's get to
it
thanks for checking out the almost
engineer channel if you are visiting for
the first time please be sure to
subscribe by clicking subscribe button
below so automatic updates is a feature
available in Ubuntu similar to Windows
has Windows updates where it basically
up stations the system automatically
with little to no effort on your part
and so the default setup for automatic
updates is that it only updates these
security packages however I actually
wanted to get it to update everything on
the system and so what I'm gonna do is
actually run through a number of steps
and these steps are available on my
website as well as the Ubuntu - Help
section of the Ubuntu - website on how to
configure some of this so the first
thing you'll need to do is to run sudo
apt-get install unattended upgrades and
I already have that installed it's
pretty common I think it's installed by
default when you install Ubuntu 18.04 so
if you don't have it just run the
install command it won't hurt if you
already have it it'll tell you you
already have it alright so the next
thing you go to CD Etsy apt apt Kampf
daddy alright and then in this directory
there are two files that we're going to
edit so the first one is going to be the
50 unattended upgrades and then the next
one is going to be the 20 auto upgrades
so you're gonna need to sudo for this so
50 unattended upgrades looks like I have
a whole backup file I'll probably come
back and remove that
point so alright do VI and as you see
here so there are comments in this file
and so basically by defaults like I
mentioned it will only install security
updates but I want to actually install
like general updates as well so I'm
going to remove the double slashes here
and then do WQ actually gonna go out and
open nano you can still do this in VI
but nano I'm more familiar with the
shortcuts for nano so alright so we've
removed the comments for the just
standard updates I don't want the
proposed or backports
consultant unnecessarily stable updates
so you only want the stuff that's
actually stable so going down if you
there are packages that you want to
exclude you can uncomment these usually
I would leave these as are as they are
because you never know when update may
happen for those you want the latest
version
the next option mentions whether you
want the development release of Ubuntu
to be automated oh great I'm going to
leave that at false I want to make sure
that I have the latest stable version
not the development version so again I'm
leaving that one at false
all right the next option says that it
allows you to control if on an unclean
dpkg exit understand the upgrades will
automatically run the default is true to
ensure that your updates keep getting
installed so I will leave that at true
so I'll relieve this since this mine is
coming it I'll leave that as is
alright split the upgrade into the
smallest possible chunks so that they
can be interrupted with sig term this
makes the upgrade a bit slower it has to
benefit that shut down while the upgrade
is running is possible I'm gonna leave
that at false again it's not necessarily
but if you need to have that done you
can uncomment this and go forward the
next option install all unintended
upgrades when the machine is shutting
down instead of doing it in the
background while the machine is running
this will obviously make shutdown slower
I'm going to leave that commented
because I don't when I shut down a
system I wanted to go ahead and shut
down I don't want it to continue to go
ahead and try to install the updates
while shutting down all right the next
option is to send the email to this
address for problems or packages upgrade
so basically if there's a problem you'll
get an email which also means you also
need to have a mail server setup and so
since I do development on this
particular machine I don't want to setup
a mail server to prevent some of those
development actions from sending out
emails because sometimes you know when
you're developing you build our email
functionality and the last thing you
want is to have a email going out to a
actual human user you know in your
development face
all right so removed used kernels you'll
want to let's see I want to uncomment
this one and the reason I'm I'm coming
this one is uncomment and gonna set this
to true and the reason I'm doing that is
because of the fact I want the kernel
packages removed if you don't remove
kernel packages what will happen over
time is that the disk space will
eventually started getting used up
significantly because kernel packages
are relatively big on a Linux system and
so I went through one day and I actually
had about 15 or 20 gigs of packages just
sitting that were no longer the latest
version so it's like if it's not the
latest version why do I still have it
and so I removed it so this will handle
that automatically so you don't have to
manually do it alright the next one do
automatic removal of new unused
dependency after the upgrade so which is
the equivalent of running app get out of
remove I do want that and I'm going to
uncomment it and then also set it to the
true automatically reboot without
confirmation and so basically if it
finds the reboot file then you wanted to
reboot I am leave that one set at false
well actually I take that back I'm
actually changed this to true because
the system does need to reboot I wanted
to go ahead and reboot to apply those
changes and then the next option
I wanted to reboot to am is pretty
decent for my particular situation you
know at 2:00 a.m. I'm usually not doing
anything there may be a chance where a
automation of some sort is running in
the background not on this particular
machine but just in general so this
should be sufficient in my opinion all
right if you want to set a bandwidth
limit you can uncheck this setting
frankly I do not care about the
bandwidth limit so I believe that as is
if you want logging you can set that up
I'm gonna leave it as false same thing
for the syslog facility download
operates only on AC power this
particular machine only runs off of AC
power there is no battery connected to
it so no sense of setting it up because
it will always need to be run and then
last option is to download and install
it grace only on non meter connections I
believe that one commented if you're
using like a Wi-Fi hotspot or something
of that similar nature you'll want to
consider enabling this option that way
you're not installing you know updates
in using all of your allocated bandwidth
all right so I'm going to save that file
now and
the next file I will need to look at is
also in the same directory it is the
2002 upgrades so open nano again if you
want to use VI you can use VI but I'm
using nano alright and so per the
documentation on the Ubuntu website it
mentions that there are a number of
options that we can add in here and so
update package lists that the one is
already added and recommended to be done
also the same thing for the unattended
upgrade value set to one alright so the
additional options are to add apt
periodic and then Auto clean interval
and set that a value to seven and so
what this will do is it will clean up
old download archives every week so
again that's about the maintaining the
space on the file system keeping it
clean and then download upgradable
packages is the other option that it
mentions that is advisable to be
included so you do a periodic download -
upgradable packages and set that by you
equal to one with a semicolon and then
that is it for that one alright oops
save then exit alright so once you have
done that if you are using like version
control for your SC directory you'll
want to commit those changes so I'm
going to go ahead and do that now at -
ooh sudo get status just to confirm that
those are added and sudo get commit
and then we're going to do updated the
unattended upgrade settings actually I
need to change that to updated so go
back alright
and then for safekeeping I need to push
that up
alright so my commit has been pushed up
so that this configuration change has
now been saved and if something happens
to this system in the future all I have
to do is pull that configuration back
down and it is good to go so hopefully
this video has helped you in configuring
your unattended upgrade set up on your
Ubuntu to 18.04 machine if you have any
questions or you know have any
differences in the process of how you
use unattended upgrades leave a comment
in the comment section below also please
be sure to check out my website they
almost engineer comm and you can follow
me on instagram and twitter at almostengr

