---
title: YouTube Embed and PageSpeed Rating
posted: 2022-08-28
category: technology
keywords: youtube, pagespeed, seo, search engine optimization
---

SEO company calls, says my business website is slow and needs to be improved. I know where this going because
I've had similar calls in the past, but I got time today so I go along with it. 

First guy passes the phone to his manager. (flag) Manager rambles on about how my site is slow, they'll create
a 8 page website for my business for $600, offer free lifetime maintenance (flag), and improve the SEO. Dude
sends links of his previous work. 

I run the sites he sent though PageSpeed Insights. Both come back with a lower grade on desktop and mobile
than my site. I tell him his sites have lower scores than mine. Tries to tell me that customers care more
about appearance than speed.  (flag) I ask how he's going to improve my website SEO with only 8 pages when
I have over 60, he talks about the site is slow. (flag)

Now he did have a point about the images taking too long to load because PageSpeed Insights confirmed that.
As for the rest, thanks for the free suggestions.

During this back and forth, he sent me a screenshot of the website because he said some of the images 
did not load. Come to find out, what he thought was images that were not loading, were in fact placeholder 
images for some of the services listed on the website. Where he really messed up though was that he 
sent a screenshot of the whole window that he had. So I saw the 7 or so tabs on Yelp that he had pulled 
up, with the last tab being that of my business Yelp listing. Not to mention, doing a time zone comparison, 
he also was not located in the US. 

## Images

What I decided to do with the images is to create a script that will batch process the images. That way if I 
add new images to the folder in the future, I don't have to pick and choose them. I can re-run the script and 
it will update the images as necessary. 

For those that are interested in the script, here it is: 

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# remove existing thumbnail images so that they are not reprocessed
rm *thumb.jpg

for file in *.jpg
do
    # resize each image ending with "jpg"
    convert -thumbnail 300 "${file}" "${file}.thumb.jpg"  
done 

# rename thumbnail images so that the extension is not included twice in file name
rename 's/\.jpg\.thumb/\.thumb/g' *thumb.jpg 
```

The script is designed to be ran on Linux. If you do not have ```convert``` installed, then on a Debian based 
system, you can run the command 

```bash
sudo apt-get install imagemagick
```

and the software will install. Then you can run the convert command. After doing some research on the command, 
I found that it does have a number of uses and features including creating thumbnails, reducing image sizes, 
and reducing image quality. 

## PageSpeed Insights

I looked at my PageSpeed score when comparing it to the other websites that the caller had listed. Noticed that 
some pages were way lower than what I thought that they should be. Decided to take some time and to investigate 
why that was the case. 

The most obvious was some of the images were unnecessarily big. However, the other thing that I least expected
was... 

### YouTube Embed

Yes the YouTube embedded videos caused significant page load time, which resulted in the PageSpeed score dropping. 
Apparently some others had found this out some time ago and blogged about it, but this was my first hearing 
about it playing a factor in low scores.

When looking at the suggestion, it mentioned that the 3rd party files were taking long times to load. Several of 
the entries pointed back to JavaScript files that were being called from YouTube. 

What I decided to do as an immediate fix was to create an image of what the embedded player looked like on
my website. Then making that image part of a link that would take you to the video. Ran the PageSpeed Insights 
on the page again and it went from a 55 score on mobile to a 86 score on mobile. That is a massive jump in score. 

I continued to research 
the matter further and found that others had found this out already. What some had attempted to do was to have a
div on the page load the thumbnail of the video from YouTube along with some CSS to display a video icon over the 
image. Then once the image was clicked, some JavaScript would take over and replace the image with the iframe 
player. Then if the user clicked again, the video would then play. 

Having to click the video twice to get it to play is not very friendly when it comes to the user experience of 
the website. Rather have them click the photo and it go to the page and play the video at the same time.

## Conclusion

Will continue working on optimizing the website. That way when those SEO companies go down the list of companies
that they find on Yelp in the future,
they'll hopefully hesitate in calling because they see that it is already optimized 
for speed. 
