---
title: Learning about Command and Query Handlers
posted: 2023-11-15
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
category: technology
keywords: command handler, C# programming, software development, query handlers, cqrs, command query responsibility segregation
---

## Background

I created the Light Show Extender application as a project to add functionality to my Christmas 
Light Show. The problem that I have is one that is similar to many other C# applications 
that utilize the Clean Architecture or Onion Architecture structure. That the more code that 
the application has, the harder it is to find and make updates to the application.  Why is this the 
case? Because those architecture patterns organize code by their technical concern instead of 
by their feature or functionality as it relates to the application. 

## Structure

By structuring the project based on the feature and functionality, when changes to the code have 
to be made, they are easier to do when all or most of the code is next to each other. 
I decided to refactor the existing application to be more like CQRS pattern. CQRS stands for 
Command Query Responsibility Segregation. 

Commands are things that typically change state in the application.  Also they do not return values 
from the operations that they perform. 
Queries usually retrieve values from the application and return them. 

## ChatGPT with the Assist

With some assistance from ChatGPT, I create a class and corresponding method for each use 
case. Originally I had created static methods for each use case, but after realizing that each 
has a number of dependencies, I changed each to be a sealed class that utilizes Dependency 
Injection. That way, I do not have to pass in each of the objects that is needed by each class. 
One problem, is that since the application that I created is a background worker application, 
the worker class has a lot of dependencies because of the number of handlers. 

## Conclusion

I intent on using this design pattern in future projects. May consider refactoring existing 
projects to use this manner so that they are easier to maintain. 
There are some additional improvements that I have identified that I want to do to improve 
the structure of the application. This includes adding more interfaces and making the handlers
run as Scoped instead of Singletons.
