---
title: Updated thealmostengineer.com to Bootstrap 5
posted: 2026-01-02
author: Kenny Robinson
keywords: bootstrap, web development, bootstrap 5, web design, stem
---

## Problem

My website had not been updated from a graphical or visual perspective for some time. It was still 
running Bootstrap 4, which was no longer supported. In addition, I wanted to rebrand the 
website an in effort to grow my online presence, build my personal brand, and to increase 
knowledge about STEM fields and education.

## Solution

I updated by website to Bootstrap 5.  While making this update, I refactored the content to 
focus more on STEM and tech content that I was working on.  By doing this, it would help improve 
my personal brand with being a person that works and knows about being in STEM 
(Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) field and career. With this refactoring, I 
updated the style of the website, reorganized the content, and added new features.

### Bootstrap 5

Update the style of the website, required getting the latest Bootstrap 5 CSS and JS files and 
installing them in the website template. Since I was also going to add some additional 
functionality to the website, that meant also creating custom CSS and JS files to accomidate 
those custom features.  One of those features was styling the code blocks on the website. This  
way the code will have the syntax highlighting, and will be easier to read. 

### Reorganizing Content

All of the content that was on the previous version of the website was kept. As I was making
the necessary changes to the website, I was also creating new content. This new content,
including this post, would remain in the development environment until all code changes had been made. 

Moving the content around did take a moment to complete. In part because I had moved all content 
to the same folder, so it was not as easy to separate it. With content being moved around, 
resulted in many of the internal links on the website breaking. Thus having to update the links 
to their new locations.  I did consider building a tool that would identify all of the broken 
links, but decided to defer doing this because it would increase the amount of time to 
complete the updates to the website. 

I wanted the focus of the website, to be about working with tech. Web development and embedded 
systems such as the ESP32 and Raspberry. As a dad, I also wanted to include the experiences 
of what it is like living "dad life". There are not as many creators or websites about dad life 
as their are for mom life, so I felt there was a gap that needed to be closed and creating 
a section on my website will allow for that.

For some of the content organization, I consult with multiple AI tools. This was to get feedback 
of what it thought would be a best way to organize content. Also how to structure the website
so that it can be used to improve my personal brand as someone that works in STEM and 
in tech.

### New Features

Static websites do have some limitations, because they are static.  Because of this, I have 
had to find other ways of implementing the features that I would like for my online community. 
This includes being able to sell products and an online forum just to name a couple.

Adding a mailing list was a new feature. Because it is a static website, the form to sign up 
is not included in the website. Therefore I have links on the website that will take users 
to the mailing list system, where they can then input their email address to subscribe. This 
is an extra step, but still allows the same task to be accomplished.

## Conclusion

The plan with this update is to keep this website on Bootstrap 5 until the next major version 
of Boostrap is released. By doing this in this manner, it allows me to keep my web development
skills and other tech skills up to date.

## Technologies Used

* Mkdocs (static site generator) 
* Bootstrap 5 (styling website)
* Github Actions (CI/CD and automated actions)
* AI (for troubleshooting code and content suggestions)
* VS Code (code editor)
* phpList (mailing list)
