---
title: Importance of QR Code Placement
description: When on vacation, I had a problem scanning the QR code to pull up the restaurant's menu.
author: Kenny Robinson
category: technology
keywords: qr code, menu alternatives, restaurant tips
posted: 2021-07-01
image: /img/20210514_085750.jpg
imagealt: QR code is in the photo but difficult to see due to the back light
---

As the world continues to adapt to be touchless and contactless, I have noticed a trend that in theory
seems like it should work, but it actually, has some flaws. More and more restaurants have sign or something 
similar that has a QR code on it that will take you to a web page that has the restaurant's menu. At
<a href="http://eatatlowells.com/" target="_blank">Lowell's Restaurant in Seattle, Washington</a>, 
the table that they sat us at the QR code next to the window. In 
following the trend with COVID, they no longer had traditional menus. Instead they had QR codes that 
a customer would scan to pull up the menu. This is a effort that I have seen several restaurants do in an 
effort to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID between customers.

## Silhouette

My camera phone had the hardest time trying to capture the QR code so that it could take me to the online 
menu. As you see form the photo above, you can barely see the photo on the pillar between the windows. 
This is known as a silhouette. Because there is a significant amount of light behind the subject that 
you are attempting to photograph, the camera struggles to see target object. To get this same effect
with the human eye, go into a dark or dimly lit area. Then point a flashlight at your eyes and try to see
beyond the flashlight. You will struggle to do so because your eyes have adapted to the flashlight because 
of its brightness.

Thus in this case, the placement of the QR code is in the worse possible location. Ideally it would have been 
better to tape it to the table or place it in a stand u picture frame.

## Include Text URL

What would have made this process less frustrating have been to have the full URL address next to the 
QR code. While some phones are good at take pictures, they may not be as great with scanning QR codes. 
In my opinion, the best alternative to this is to have the URL listed next to the QR code. That way if 
a customer, like myself in this case, has an issue with scanning the QR code, then they can still access
the menu by typing in the URL.

## Disposable Menus

One of the waiters did realize that were having issues with scanning the QR code. Thus he came by the table 
and offered a paper menu for us to use. This, while it may increase the cost to the business by having 
to dispose of the menu once a customer has used it, still allows for customers who are having difficulties
or may have left their phones at home to be able to place an order.

## Conclusion

Hopefully restaurant owners will be more conscious about the placement of their QR codes if they are using 
them in an effort to maek the customer experience better.
