---
title: Apply For That job
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
posted: 2022-04-16
keywords: "career, tech career, #BlackTechTwitter, job openings"
category: technology
---

Couple of weeks ago, an individual that is in one of the Black Tech groups that I am in on 
Facebook, made a post. Unfortunately, I do not have a copy of the exact text of the post 
and cannot get the text because the poster deleted said post. Now I am not going to mention
who said individual is because that is not the point of this post. I will say that I do 
follow said individual on Twitter and probably have a connection with him on 
LinkedIn as well. His branding as being a recruiter for a tech company is consistent and 
can be vouched for.

## What Was Said

The post said 
something along the lines of "people should not apply for jobs that they are not qualified for". 
This is my paraphrased version of the post that was made as the original was longer and 
in some ways could have been seen as a rant.
From reading the post, it did have a subliminal message to it. In my opinion, the poster 
seemed to be frustrated with the number of applications that he had received for one or more 
positions that he was trying to fill, but those applicant's did not meet or come close 
to the requirements for the position. Thus he could not even consider them for the position.

The amount of comments that the post had within the first 45 minutes... it was not a good look. 
A few people agreed with him, but a vast majority of those that commented, including myself, 
did not. 

## They About To Roast You

The comments among those you did not agree with the poster's post, had a consistent theme
to it. It is not the applicant's responsibility to qualify or disqualify him or herself. 
That is the job of the recruiter or Human Resources (HR) person to do. 

As most people would do, they defend their position about a post that they made, but 
majority of the audience (rest of the group) was not having it. Why not? 

The post was negative and consending in nature. A number of people are joining tech 
and Black tech Facebook groups to see what the trends are, ask questions related to their 
field, and to find new opportunities and positions that are available. Because this post 
goes against every one of those points and more, the poster was ridiculed 
