---
title: Calendar Versionoing Works
description: Discussion about versioning software and why I chose to follow calendar versioning
posted: 2021-12-12
keywords: software versioning, programming, 
---

I have been working on several size projects. One of those projects, related to the 
[Chrismtas Light Show](/projects/christmas-light-show) called 
[Falcon Pi Twitter](/projects/falcon-pi-twitter), has custom built software that runs it. 

When a question gets asked about how my show is set up, I share the details about the electrical aspect 
of it and the Twitter application that posts the song data. When they hear about the Twitter account and 
how it works to post the information about the current song, questions roll in.

I realize that this could be a valuable opportunity to make this application into a full, open source
application that can be used by other individuals that use the 
<a href="https://github.com/FalconChristmas/fpp" target="_blank">Falcon Pi Player</a> as part of their 
light show.  One aspect of creating software is that you have to do releases and with releases, are 
release numbers. There are many release number strategies, but I wanted to share the one that I chose 
and why I chose it. 

## Semantic Versioning

From what I have been able to find, there are mutliple ways of doing semantic versioning. Theres the 

```
major.minor.build
```

```
major.minor.patch
```

```
major.minor
```

and the list goes on. With this pattern, only one of the numbers change when there is a release and the 
number that changes depends on what was done as part of that release. This in my opinion was a bit 
more than what I was looking to have with my application because thought to know what was changed, 
cannot be easily scripted to update the version number, and can make your application look outdated 
although it just had a release. 

## Calendar Versioning 

This strategy names the version number based on the date that the release was built or make available. 
Like the Semantic Versioning, there are variations of this versioning as well. They are 

```
year.month
```

```
year.month.date
```

```
year.month.patch
```

This pattern has multiple strategies. Most common with this strategy is that there is one feature release 
per month or per day, and bugs fix releases are done between feature releases of they are severe enough. 
This pattern is also easy to come up with the release number as you mainly have to pull the current date. 
You know how old the latest release is because the year and month that it was released is in the version 
number. 

## My Choice: Calendar Versioning 

I decided to go with calendar versioning because it is easy to set up with scripts and does not require 
that you have to know whether a bug or feature was added to the application. 

The pattern that I decided to go with is 

```
year.month.date
```

It is highly unlikely that I would do multiple releases within the same day, but is possible that I do 
multiple within the same month with new features and bug fixes. 

### It Looks Like Semantic Version Number 

The only problem with this is that it 
looks similar to Semantic Versioning with the 3 digit version number. From what I have seen, as part 
of the application's documentation, the version number scheme is sometimes included, especially if it is 
following a "year.month" or similar strategy. The difference in my opinion is that most can tell that it is 
a calendar versioning because the first digit of the pattern is usually a year,
not a single or double digit number. One exception to this is Ubuntu's versioning method. They use the
2-digit year as the first number instead of the 4 digit year. I'll be using a four digit year 
as part of my versioning pattern.

### Breaking Changes

A point that is made by those who create software is that calendar versioning does not help developers 
that are not working on the application know when there are breaking changes or features added. In my
opinion, this is true. Knowing what features have been added or bugs have been fixed is part of the 
release notes. Version numbers do help with finding that information fast, but ultimately as a developer, 
one should be reviewing the release note and application documentation to see what has changed and how 
to update their code in regards to the new changes. 
