---
title: Loading Configuration in .NET 6 Worker Service
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
category: technology
keywords: .net 6, configuration, programming, csharp
posted: 2022-06-12
---

I was updating the [Falcon Pi Twitter](/projects/falcon-pi-twitter) project
from .NET 5 to .NET 6. As part of this upgrade, 
I created new projects so that I could use the templates that were designed for .NET 6. 

Yes I could have used the .NET 5 template that came with Program.cs and Startup.cs, 
but I wanted to 
expand my knowledge of how to do things with only the Program.cs file that is provided 
as part of .NET 6 templates. This application is built using the Worker Service template.

With .NET 5, the configuration was part of the Startup class. Since there is no longer a
Startup class, I did not know where it should be placed. I did the research on 
<a href="https://stackoverflow.com/users/12875554/almostengr" target="_blank">Stack Overflow</a>
but did not come up with any answers.

After some time, I did figure out what needed to be done and wrote this post to share 
that same information and some of the challenges that I faced when setting things up. 

## Getting the appsettings.json Loaded

With my projects, I usually have two appsettings.json files. One for production
and one for development configuration. Production file is called 
```appsettings.json``` and the Development file is called ```appsettings.Development.json```. 

I found that you have to use the Configuration Builder to load the appsettings.json file. 
You do this by adding the following to the Program.cs file. 

```csharp
IConfiguration configuration = new ConfigurationBuilder()
    .AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", true, true)
    .Build();
```

You can add multiple JSON files to the configuration. For example, if you have a configuration 
file that is provided or used by another applicatoin, but also needs to be accessed by  
the application that you are building,
you can add another ```AddJsonFile``` line in the file for additional configurations.

Since I wanted to able to source appsettings.json for each environment, I updated the
``` AddJsonFile ``` to 

```csharp
.AddJsonFile("appsettings.Development.json", true, true)
.AddJsonFile("appsettings.json", true, true)
```

The problem that I then found out, is that when you do this, the second configuration file 
listed will overwrite the values in the first configuration value listed. Thus if you are working 
in Development, you will be running with the Production configuration values, and that would 
not be the correct way of doing things.

I then added a configuration switcher based on the environment variable that is defined by 
the application. The code looks as follows: 

```csharp
string appSettingsFile = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT") == "Production" ?
     "appsettings.json" : "appsettings.Development.json";

IConfiguration configuration = new ConfigurationBuilder()
    .AddJsonFile(appSettingsFile, false, true)
    .Build();
```

To explain the lines above, the application is looking at the DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT variable, 
formerly ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT variable in previous .NET versions, 
to determine which appsettings file to use. From that, the 
appsettings file is used in the configuration.

Note that the second parameter in the AddJsonFile is now set to false because we want the application
to throw an error if the correct appsettings.json file does not exist.

## Use AppSettings with Dependency Injection

Now that we have the configuration loaded and in the Program.cs file, we can then use it via 
Dependency Injection (DI) in our application.

Inside of the ConfigureServices extension method of the IHost, add the following 

```csharp
AppSettings appSettings = configuration.GetSection(nameof(AppSettings)).Get<AppSettings>();
services.AddSingleton(appSettings);
```

## Final Result

After doing the above, you should have a Program.cs file that looks similar to the below.

```csharp
string appSettingsFile = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT") == "Production" ?
     "appsettings.json" : "appsettings.Development.json";

IConfiguration configuration = new ConfigurationBuilder()
    .AddJsonFile(appSettingsFile, false, true)
    .Build();
    
IHost host = Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
    .ConfigureServices(services =>
    {
        AppSettings appSettings = configuration.GetSection(nameof(AppSettings)).Get<AppSettings>();
        services.AddSingleton(appSettings);
    })
    .Build();

await host.RunAsync();
```

Then you can use the configuration when starting other services within the ```ConfigureServices```
method and by referencing the appSettings variable 
or within your other classes by using Dependency Injection and passing in 
```AppSettings appSettings``` as part of the class constructor.

