---
title: Got a 3D Printer. Now what?
description: A 3D printer was donated to my NSBE chapter. Discuss what I have learned about it thus far. 
posted: 2022-02-24
category: technology
keywords: 3d printer, 3d printing, nsbe,
---

An individual that know from the community reached out to me and said that he wanted to donate a 3D printer
that he had to my NSBE chapter. This was unexpected and I had zero idea of what we could do with it. 
Since this was my first experience with a 3D printer, everything was a puzzle.
This is a story of trying to get a 3D printer to work with no previous experience. After trial and error 
and resarch, I found that 3D printing breaks down into the following areas.

## Assembly

The donor had issues with getting it working, which I was able to fix. After going through the provided 
assembly instructions, I realized that some of the assembly was done incorrect, which 
contributed to the printer not working. The assembly instructions didn't cover all the steps to fully 
assemble the printer, thus had to turn to the internet for answers. After typing in the brand and model name,
which I found out was another brand name that was rebadged, I then started finding answers to why 
the extruder wasn't working correctly. The instructions was missing the assembly step for the extruder, thus 
it wasn't properly connected. Looking at a clip from a YouTube video, I was able to get the extruder properly 
connected and working.

## Level

Like building a house, things have to be level. When everything is level, then the rest of the assembly is easier. 
When things are unlevel, the you get inconsistent or horrible results. Come to find out, the same is true 
with a 3D printer. First several test prints with printer did not work. One of those test prints, was actually 
too close to the base plate and ended up scouring the pad that's on the plate. Oops. More research. 
Eventually I ran across several videos and articles that describe using a sheet of paper to get uniform distance 
between the board and the print head. To be honest, I wanted to take a spirit level out and throw it on the board 
to make the whole thing level, but apparently that's not the right way as there are too many moving parts. 
I did see where one had made a small circuit that goes between the print head and plate. Then the plate is adjusted 
in the 4 corners until it just touches the print head and makes the light on the circuit turn on.

## Filament

The printer came with a roll of filament. On said role, it mentioned that the printing temperature was 230-250. 
The little bit of research that I had done prior to this, I realized that this was in Celsius and not 
Fahrenheit. Conveniently, the temperatures on the 3d Printer were also in Celsius, thus no conversion was 
needed. I set the printer to 240 and thought that all would be well. It was not. Come to find out, you have to 
also set the bed temperature and that was a whole different story. Depending on the article, the bed temperature 
varied. Again, as a novice to this, I did not know that there were different filament types. Once I found 
out that there were different filament types, then I had to find out which type that was donated to us. 
Come to find out, it was PETG, according to the box, not spool.

## Temperature

From what I have found, temperature is critical in 3D printing. It also depends on the type of filament that 
you are using to print with. There are two different temperatures that you have to keep in mind. 
The extruder temperature and the bed temperature. The extruder temperature is the temperature that the 
print head needs to be to turn the filament from a solid to a liquid and create the object that you are
attempting to make. The plate temperature is what your printing will sit on as it is being printed. This 
is critical because too low of a plate temp the print wont stick to the plate or will move around during printing
and too high of a temperature means that what you printed may not properly cure.  
