Yesterday I attended a session about breaking into tech. 
This is a topic that I see asked on Black Tech Twitter and
various tech Facebook groups that I'm in. However,  I've never seen it
explained in the manner like I saw at this session. 

Background about this session is that majority of the people that attended were already in tech including myself. 
Most of us was there because they wanted to network and to just be a part of the tech community. 

## Personal Thoughts

When I get asked how can someone get into tech, I answer their question with a question by asking what is their career goal. 
Most do not have an answer to this question. They just know that a lot of people make good or great money on tech and they want the money. 
Problem with this line of thinking is that some want to chase the money and not have a career objective. When you chase the money and not the objective, it shows up in other areas. 
You lack knowledge that similar individuals have acquired and are well versed in. 
You lack drive to make yourself a better candidate for the job you desire. 
All this lack shows up in the lack of skill and experience. This why they have a hard time breaking into tech. 

This leads me to tell people to find out what they want to do in tech. Once you discover that, then getting into tech will be easier. Reason being is that a network engineer doesn't necessarily need to know the same stuff as a Linux administrator. 


## Presenters Perspective 

One of the presenters drew the diagram on the board and elaborated on how to get into tech. 
He broke it down that made sense and offers a different perspective to hope to get into tech

In the tech field, you either work with people or you work with computers. 
From there the options narrow and go into the various fields of tech. 
