---
title: YouTube Embed and PageSpeed Rating
posted: 2022-08-28
category: technology
keywords: youtube, pagespeed, seo, search engine optimization
---

SEO company calls, says my business website is slow and needs to be improved. I know where this going because
I've had similar calls in the past, but I got time today so I go along with it. 

First guy passes the phone to his manager. (flag) Manager rambles on about how my site is slow, they'll create
a 8 page website for my business for $600, offer free lifetime maintenance (flag), and improve the SEO. Dude
sends links of his previous work. 

I run the sites he sent though PageSpeed Insights. Both come back with a lower grade on desktop and mobile
than my site. I tell him his sites have lower scores than mine. Tries to tell me that customers care more
about appearance than speed.  (flag) I ask how he's going to improve my website SEO with only 8 pages when
I have over 60, he talks about the site is slow. (flag)

Now he did have a point about the images taking too long to load because PageSpeed Insights confirmed that.
As for the rest, thanks for the free suggestions.

## Images

What I decided to do with the images is to create a script that will batch process the images. That way if I 
add new images to the folder in the future, I don't have to pick and choose them. I can re-run the script and 
it will update the images as necessary. 

For those that are interested in the script, here it is: 

```sh
#!/bin/bash

for file in *.jpg
do
    convert -thumbnail 300 "${file}" "${file}.thumb.jpg"
done 

rename 's/\.jpg\.thumb/\.thumb/g' *thumb.jpg 
```

The script is designed to be ran on Linux. If you do not have ```convert``` installed, then on a Debian based 
system, you can run the command 

```sh
sudo apt-get install imagemagick
```

and the software will install. Then you can run the convert command. After doing some research on the command, 
I found that it does have a number of uses and features including creating thumbnails, reducing image sizes, 
and reducing image quality. 

## PageSpeed Insights

I looked at my PageSpeed score when comparing it to the other websites that the caller had listed. 
