---
title: AT&T Internet Issues
posted: 2022-04-01
keywords: mobile data, cellular data, internet
---

All was good for the day. Was able to access the internet via my phone. Then all of a sudden
I was not able to. Still able make and receive calls and texts, but no internet. As the old 
"IT Crowd" best practice by turning it off and back on again. 
When the phone came back online, it displayed a notification saying to 
"Sign into the AT&T network", similar to the message that you would see when signing into 
some public Wifi access points. When I would open the notification, it would display 
a webpage that said 

```txt
AT&T Free Msg: It looks like you wnat to use data but have none available. You may need to 
add a data package, refill to use pay-per-use data or change to a plan that supports data. 
To check your plan and manage your account, start at att.com/myprepaid. If you just made a 
payment for your monthly plan with data, power your device off and back on, then try again.
```

I knew that I had mobile data plan enabled because it was working hours before and that
the website said that I used 6 GB for the month. After multiple restart attempts
nothing worked, so I called customer service. 

I'll spare majority of the details of the actual call. Customer service said that their 
system showed that my phone needed to be updated,
to which I responded couldn't have been the case because I had updated the phones OS about a week earlier. 
She then suggested that I 
check to see if another update was available to which I had to tell her multiple times 
that the phone couldn't check for updates since it did not have internet service. She 
had to message a SME about the issue for how to proceed. *eye roll* It was at this point 
that I knew that she was reading from knowledge base, but was probably searching for the 
wrong terms and thus the correct knowledge document was not coming up.

Long story short, I found a knowledge document on AT&T website that provided the data settings
that your phone should have depending on its connection type. Looking at what my phone already 
had and what was listed on the site for my LTE compatible phone, the settings were missing 
a couple of parameters. Thus I went into the data settings for my phone and added the 
endpoint settings that were listed on the site, powered off the phone for about 10 minutes, 
restarted the phone, and data started working normally. 
Those mobile internet settings can be found on 
<a href="https://www.att.com/support/article/wireless/KM1062162/" target="_blank">att.com</a>.

No thanks to the customer representative, I figured out the issue myself and was able 
to the internet working again. For those that are reading the AT&T forums, the responses
provided there did not offer an answer. 
