---
title: Roe V. Wade and Your Digital Footprint
posted: 2022-06-27
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
keywords: roe v wade, digital footprint, 
category: Technology
---

Roe v Wade was overturned on Friday. That means that those to want to have an abortion will have to travel to 
states that allow it. That also means that in the states that have partial or full bans on abortion, 
that you need to be well aware of your digital habits going forward. 



## Membership Stores, Rewards Programs, Credit and Debit Card Purchases

I strongly believe that this data will be used as evidence against women in the future. All of these four methods 
can be used to uniquely identify you and the purchases that you make. Furthermore, a number of retailers use 
outside companies to do marketing analysis on the data that they collect on their customers. From this, 
retailers can then use this data and data collected from other retailers to market to you. 

Some retailers even save credit card information when you make a purchase. How do you know if they retailer
is keeping your credit or debit card on file? Simple... if you make a purchase, then do a refund of that 
purchase and you do not have to swipe your card for the return to be completed, then they are storing your 
card information. 

Each of these methods are used to uniquely identify customers. Then from this purchase information, they can 
determine things about you, such as whether you have kids, are pregnant, suspect that you might be pregnant, 
and about when you had a "alt-ctrl-delete" procedure done. Just atkes a few database queries and there it is.

Major concern in this area is for women that have PCOS, missed a cycle from being under a lot of stress,
or other conditions that make them irregular. They could 
have a series of normalness, like cycling every 30 days, give or take one or two, and then have a cycle thats 70 
days. This one anomaly from the average would stand out. Because it stands out, it could land them in hot 
water and be overly scruntized.

My suggestion: 

* do not buy femine hygiene or family planning related products from membership based stores
* do not use your rewards, credit, or debit cards when buying femine hygiene or family planning related products 
* do use cash only when buying femine hygiene or family planning related products
* when asked for your zip code, phone number, or any other identifying information, do not provide it when 
buying femine hygiene or family planning related products

## Online Search and Browsing History

What you look at online and where you browse online has been used in previous cases. One example of this, was 
a classmate of mine from college was had his browser search history used as evidence in court when he 
left his child in a car during the summer while he was at work. Some of the search terms that were said 
to have been found were about insurance payouts and how to do without getting caught. 

In that same regard, people doing searches about family planning and where they can go to "alt-ctrl-delete" 
would be used like the information collected from one's purchases. 

When it comes to this, my suggestions to reduce your digital footprint in this area are:

* that you use incognito browsing when doing the searches related to family planning
* use a search engine like DuckDuckGo that does not save your search criteria
* do not bookmark information related to family planning in your browser. Read what you need to read and if 
you need to make notes about what you have read, put them on paper

## Voice Assistants and Your Phone

People have asked directly asked whether the Alexa and Google Home devices were sending the information to the 
government. The dvices in turn would either not respond or say that they did not understand the question. 
The thing is, we know that they are always listening. 

Reason that we know this because in order for it to respond, it has to be always listening. Just like when other 
people are in the same room as you talking to others, you may not be paying attention to them. Then when they 
call your name, you direct your attention to them so that you can provide a response. 

What should you do as alternatives

* if you need or are going to talk with someone regardless this subject, make sure that there are no phones 
and voice assistants in the room.
* do not text or make phone calls discussing the manner. The apps you have on your phone are always listening, 
even when you make calls and some apps have permissions to read your messages, especially the ones your send
on social media

## Conclusion 

There are people out there who are skilled in breaking into digital systems that also believe that women 
do not have the right to make their own choices. My thought is that those individuals will be looking and 
attempting to break into systems that have this information and then use it to report women to get 
them prosecuted. 

It seems like a stretch, but I am going to claim it now that there will be some prosecution of women
based on the digital footprint that they leave behind. This evidence alone may not be enough to 
convict a woman of said crime, but if they can find it, they will use it as supporting evidence. 
My advice, is to be mindful of your digital habits now, because the way things are going, will have 
consequences for a lot of us. 
