---
title: 
author: Kenny Robinson, @almostengr
posted: 2022-09-30
category: technology
keywords: drupal, content management systems, cms, web development
---

## Background

A lady reached out to me recently requesting help with the Drupal-based website that she was working on. 
She needed to upgrade it from Drupal 7 to Drupal 9. I let her know up front that I had not work with Drupal
in some time, so I may not have the best answers, but I would share what I knew and provide the assistance
that I could. 

Below are the major points that I made. I share this because the videos that I have posted about in the past 
on Drupal, means that I occasionally, even after no longer working with it, still get questions when 
someone runs into a problem. This post will serve as documentation in case someone else has a similar 
problem in the future.

## Why Upgrade?

I [previously wrote](/technology/2019.12.21-switched-blog-from-drupal-to-mkdocs) about what was required to 
move this blog from Drupal 7 to a static website. One of the reason that I did not mention in that post
was that the Drupal 7 retirement date had been announced. At that point, I had a decision to make.... 

* stay on Drupal and upgrade to version 8, which at the time did not many of the contributed modules that I was
currently using ported to version 8
* find a different tech stack and not worry about keeping up to date with the latest technology. 

As you can tell I chose the latter option. Content Management Systems (CMS) have updates released all the 
time as well as major updates. Reason is that a number of people find the vulnerabilties and exploit them 
resulting in needed fixes. Once D7 is retired, there will be some websites that have not upgraded that will
result in being compromised because they were not secured. 

## Unproductionalized The Website

It was mentioned that she was getting errors, but some of the errors were not making sense. Told her that 
in the Drupal documentation, there is a recommended production configuration options. I advised that those 
be undone as they will provide more detail about the errors that are occurring with the website, which 
would hopefully assist with fixing the issues that she was encountering.

## 
