---
title: Don't Start Nothing, Won't Be Nothing
author: Kenny Robinson
posted: 2026-03-01
keywords: america, war, military
---

Yesterday, an military attack was done on Iran. Many of people are opposed to this 
because of the impact that it would have on the country. Also because there Files that 
some people do not want released, because those files are damaging to their reputation.
Given these circumstances at the beginnging of this month, here are some things that 
I suggest that we all do.

## Victory Gardens

I was looking into having a backyard garden and ran into Victory Gardens. The concept 
for a Victory Garden started with the war. In an effort to prioritize food and other 
goods for the war, Americans were encouraged to have a garden at home. The 
federal government went as far as providing written materials for people to follow 
to start and sustain their gardens. 

Given the current conflict, political climate, and food that's not really food, 
I believe that it is more important that we grow our own food at home. I'm not saying
that each home should have an entire grocery store in their yard and house, but I am 
saying that we should get to a point of partial or full sustainablilty and living 
from the land. 

## Black Gold

At this point, both of the conflicts have been centered or related to countries that 
have large amounts of oil or access to oil. Iran being next to a major water way, 
is a big deal because a lot of the oil that is used throughout the world travels 
next to or near Iran.  All it takes for them to shut that down and that will start 
chain reaction of events that will impact majority of the world.

I do agree that we should reduce our dependence on oil and oil related products. This 
means driving less, using renewable sources of energy such as solar and wind power, 
and being more energy conscious. 

## Mental Health Check

In a video post that I made, I encouraged people to start journaling about the current 
events, and how the current events made them feel. What emotional or mental impact 
have the current events have on them or someone that they know. 

Time and time again, we have seen various tactics that have been done that have 
attempted to eliminated or alter history so that one demographic of people does not 
look as bad as they actually were. As the saying goes, 
"Those who forget history are condemned to repeat it". Removing parts of history, because 
you do not want a demographic of people to look bad or feel bad, it just as saying 
we are going to ignore that part of history because we do not like it.

## Conclusion

We all should really assess what we have in place currently, because of a handful of 
people do not want to look bad to the public. Problem is, they already look bad and 
just refused to listen to the public's opinion.
