---
title: Investing Is Biblical
posted: 2026-06-21
author: Kenny Robinson
category: investing, biblical, spiritual guidance
---

Recently, I was listening to Mike Moore Ministries podcast episode,
title “Afraid to Make the Wrong Decision?”.
It mentioned that investing was one of the many things that believers should be
doing to be aligned with the Word. 
The scripture that was used to reference this was **Matthew 25:14-30**.
This set of scripture is commonly referred to as the Parable of the Talents.

I had heard this scripture before as a sermon, but it was never explained
that this was a lesson on financial investing.
Reviewing the scripture again, I see why it points out the significance
of investing the money and resources that you have.

The scripture says that 2 of the 3 men, invested the money that was given
to them.  In essence, they were being good stewards of the money that
they were given. The last man did not invest his.

Those that did invest, were rewarded by receiving what they had invested
back (in essence they double their investment) and 
were given more responsibilities when the master returned (21, 23). The
one that did not invest any, was shamed, called wicked, and
sent away because of lack of effort to use the money wisely (26). Since
he did not invest what was given to him, what he had was taken 
away from him and he was sent away.

## My Understanding

My understanding of the scripture breaks down to the below

### At Least Have a An Interest-Earning Bank Account

I believe that at a minimum, 
we all should be investing money into a savings account. The man who 
did not invest at all, was ridiculed and told that at least he could have 
taken it to the bank.  This is better than holding on to the money and not 
doing anything with it. 

While there are many types of bank accounts, they money should be put 
into account that earns interest.  That means you need to have a 
savings, money market, or CD account.  CashApp, Venmo, PayPal, 
and checking accounts are not sufficient, because these accounts 
do not earn interest or allow you to invest the money that you have 
in them.

### Inflationary Debt

Not investing what we have, will result in the money that we do have 
being taken away from us. In the case of this scripture, they money was 
taken away from the man who was given 1 talent and given to the 
man that was originally given 5. 

Modern day version of this, would be the cost of inflation. Money that is 
stashed under the bed, or in a hole in the backyard does not earn any interest. 
Often a number of people believe in holding on to the money that they earn
instead of putting it to positive use. This money cannot keep up with the 
rate of inflation because it is not being put to use. 

Money that was put in the mattress in 1990, would have less buying power 
in 2026, because the value of a dollar has decreased over time.  In 1992, 
I remember as a kid, circa 1992, that you could get small bags of chips 
for 25 cents each, or 4 for $1.  In 2026, a similar, but smaller bag of chips
are a $1 each. In this example, the dollar gets you 4 times less in 2026, 
than it would get you in 1992. That’s diabolical. 

### The Rich Will Get Richer

It is often talked about the rich getting richer. After reading and researching
this scripture, it makes more sense why the rich get richer.  A number of them 
invest and donate the money that they have. Because they do these things, 
they get rewarded to do more of what they are already doing. 

Now someone will probably say that the Bible says that the rich will not 
get into heaven (Matthew 19:21-24). Being rich and hoarding the wealth, is not 
the same as being rich and giving to the poor. One of these strategies society
conveys that you are great and wise person.  The other just make you seem great. 

Bible says that those who are rich, should give to the poor.  People 
often miss the latter part of this and as a result, hoard the wealth for 
themselves or their trusted circles. Hoarding the wealth, will not get you 
into heaven. Being a good steward of the wealth and giving it to the poor, 
is the difference. 

## Conclusion

I have been doing investing over the years. However, after learning about 
this perspective of the scripture, I will be more intentional about the scripture 
and how I use the money that I have going forward.
