---
title: Thoughts about the Karmelo Anthony Case
posted: 2026-06-10
author: Kenny Robinson
---

Years ago, I took a firearms familiarization class. Part of that class, 
was learning about when you can use deadly force (a.k.a. Use of Force), 
and when you do use it, what you should and should not say when you have 
used deadly force, and Duty to Retreat and Stand Your Ground laws 
in Alabama.

After seeing others post their thoughts, I am sharing mine based on 
my understanding of the law. Based on the comments and posts that I saw, 
a number of people do not understand duty to retreat, use of force, nor
stand your ground. 

DISCLAIMER: By no means am I a lawyer, and this is should 
not be considered legal advice. If you are in a similar situation, please
consult with a lawyer licensed in the state where the offense occurred. 

## My Understanding of the Case

From what I understand that happened, Anthony and other individuals were at 
a track meet. It started raining/storming and players ran to the tents to take 
cover and not get wet. Anthony ran to the opposing team's tent. Metcalf and 
others who were on the opposing team, told Anthony that he needed to leave. 
Anthony refused repeatedly to leave. 
Once shoved by Metcalf, Anthony pulled a knife and 
stabbed Metcalf. Metcalf would later succumb to his injuries. Anthony was
taken into custody and charged.

## My Understanding of the Law

When applying the above to the knowledge that I learned about the case, there are 
several points to be made. Many have pointed out that the jury did not look like 
him at all, and that's why he got charged and convicted. While that could be factor, I'm not going to focus on that with the points I make.

### Duty To Retreat

Anthony was asked multiple times to leave the opponent's tent 
and chose not to. Because he chose 
not to retreat when he had the option to do so, he then failed to 
apply the Duty to Retreat. From what I learned from the class, you have to 
attempt to leave the situation before using force. One exception to this, 
the Castle Doctrine, is when you are in your home, that you do not have a 
duty to retreat because your home is your castle. 

Had Anthony attempted to retreat, and was followed or chased, then pulled the 
weapon, then the Stand Your Ground law and justifiable use of force
might have been applicable. 
When you are somewhere that you should not have been, unauthorized area, and 
you choose to stay in that area, you can't claim Stand Your Ground.

Many have said that he was standing his ground. The problem is he was asked to 
leave the area and didn't. Because of this, he was in an unauthorized area. 
Since he was in an unauthorized area, stand your ground defense cannot be used, 
because it often requires a duty to retreat. Exceptions are when you are in 
your own home or dwelling.

### Right To Defend Yourself

Anthony did not attempt to retreat before pulling his weapon. This is significant,
because a duty to retreat is sometimes required in order to justify defending
yourself. This requirement varies from state to state.

At a high level, if you do everything reasonable to retreat and are 
unable to get away from the individual(s), (i.e. backed into a wall, blocked
in with vehicles, etc.), then the law says that you can use force (e.g. knife, taser bat) to defend yourself. In some cases,
you are allowed legally use deadly force (e.g. gun) as long as the duty to retreat 
perquisite has been met.

### Use of Force

In the case, things started as a push or shove from Metcalf with some 
exchange of words. Anthony responded by exchanging more words and pulling a knife. 

The pulling of the knife is an escalation of force. Combine that with the fact 
that the escalation resulted in the use of deadly force, and the law really 
doesn't favor you using that force. 

* knife vs knife => equal 
* bat vs broken lamp => equal 
* fist vs knife => not equal

In this case, when the knife was used, there was an unequal use of force. 
Combine that with the failure to retreat, and there's no positive outcome. 

### Murder vs Manslaughter

Some definitions to begin...

* manslaughter - caused bodily harm or death that was not premeditated
* murder - caused bodily harm or death that was premeditated

Based on the understanding mentioned above, I do not believe that Anthony 
intended to take Metcalf's life. 
I do believe that Anthony pulled the knife with the intent to cause harm, but not 
deadly harm. 

Because of the intent of wanting to cause harm to get Metcalf away
from him and the definition of "murder", it resulted in the murder charge. 

Could a lower murder charge have applied? Probably. Knowing what I know, the 
prosecution will always go for the highest charge that will result in
a conviction.

As it relates to what I learned in the class, it was insisted that if you 
ever use deadly force, to state that you were stopping the threat. Stopping the
threat vs saying you wanted to kill or cause harm can mean the difference between 
murder and defend yourself. Not saying that is or isn't what happened in this 
case, as I did not watch the case or read the transcripts. 

## Conclusion

Do I understand why they charged him with murder? Yes.

Was there bias in the jury? I wouldn't question it. I also didn't watch the case 
to see their reactions to the information that was presented.

Do I believe that we should educate Black men about the law to reduce their
chances of ending up in circumstances like this?  Yes. As a black man, it is 
important to know when you can or cannot do things that will have you in 
legal hot water. 

There's a lot that can be learned from this. Saying that the system is 
unfair and that the system is biased hasn't significantly changed the system
at all. Some will say 
that the needle has moved, but in my opinion, it hasn't moved enough and could be 
moved more. Educating ourselves and others, on what can or should be done in 
circumstances like this, 
is the best strategy until a more significant change can occur and that 
bias can be removed and unlearned.
