---
title: Montgomery Shootings and Closing Businesses
posted: 2026-06-22
author: Kenny Robinson
keywords: montgomery, alabama, crime, shootings, business closings
---

On Saturday, June 20th a shooting took place at or near the Raceway gas
station on the Eastern Blvd in Montgomery, Alabama.
That resulted in 2 dead, and 2 others 
injured. To be honest, this is not the first time that a shooting has taken
place at this gas station. It as well as the other station are common 
places for things to happen given their placement in a high traffic area.

From what I understand, there were over 50 people that showed up to the gas
station after being told to leave another gas station. Think of a street 
take over, but they aren't taking over the street. They were taking over
a parking lot first. Then it escalates to a point that they are taking
over the street.

The following day, on Sunday June 21st, several people, including elected 
officials made posts about the situation. One person, KK Middleton, said 
that the business license should be revoked.

## Get A Reaction

When something significant like this happens, elected officials run to 
social media or even TV and say we should do this or we should do that. 

When folks yell out to revoke the business license, they are only doing it 
to get a reaction from the public. Very rearely do that have a succession 
plan for the area or business if it were to close.

This is short sighted thinking, because yes you can close the business, 
but that just creates another problem.

## Fix One Problem to Create Others

When a business has their license revoked, it has to close. Vacant buildings
such as the gas station across the street from the Raceway and next door 
to the Burger King, get broken into. The homeless set up camp in the business, 
make the building become a public nuisance, and in some cases destroy
the building. Also mention that the tax revenue, depending on the 
popularity of the business, will no longer be generated because the business
is closed and the family or owners of the business would be financially 
impacted. 

Time and time again, those elected want to hold people for actions that 
are taken in the parking lot of the business. Depending on where that 
business is located (i.e. shopping center), that business still gets 
penalized by the council or other elected body for the actions taken 
in an area near the business, but not necessarily within the control 
of the business. One could argue that this is one of those cases, given
that the shooting took place in the parking lot of the business and 
not on the interior of the business.

## Conclusion

Do I agree that something needs to be done for dealing with the 
shootings and crime that takes place? Yes. 

Do I think that the businesses where these crimes are taking 
place should be held accountable? To an extent. You cannot control
who shows up or what is done in the parking lot.
In the case of the gas station, they may need to have security
in the parking to prevent loitering from taking place. However, that 
does not mean crimes like this will continue in other places. 
In some cases, those other places will be the parking lots of 
vacant businesses.
