---
title: What is a Contactor? How does a Contactor work?
author: Kenny Robinson
category: Handyman
keywords: contactor, electrical engineering, electricity, hvac repair, hvac components
posted: 2020-08-15
updated: 2020-08-16
youtube: https://youtu.be/1GeZH9MO16E
---

Recently I had to replace the contactor on my air conditioner after the last one had a burned wire on 
it. I discuss the parts of a contactor and how it works. Check out the video!

## Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1GeZH9MO16E" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Transcript

what's going on fellow engineers this is
Kenny and thanks for checking out the
Almost Engineer Channel and in this
video I'm going to talk about a
contactor this thing right here and how
it works
stay tuned
*Music*
alright so this is the
contactor that I took off of my HVAC
unit and this is the old one so I just
wanted to talk about what a contactor is
and what it does and how it works and so
there are some elements on here that are
not exactly right with a modern
contactor this one is probably original
to the HVAC unit that I have so there
are some differences that I notice
between the new one and the old one
alright folks so I got my new contactor
which is this one over here and my old
contactor which is this one here for the
most part they are pretty much the same
the screw on this one actually I had to
screw it all the way out to get the lead
out of there so but there are some
significant differences that I'm
noticing so on the top of this one
actually you stick the wire in whereas
this one had a clamp that you put a
connector on it and then you put that
connector around the screw head so the
top is essentially like the bottom now
where you stick the whole wire in and
then you screw to clamp it down all the
way also the same number of pins here
looks to be there's eight on the bottom
and there's eight on the top here I only
had I believe it was two wires here and
this one also is enclosed so as you can
see you can see the coil on this one
both sides so but you can on this one
and the reason being is somebody
actually took the counts that hey bugs
can actually get into this thing and
cause problems so what they do now is
they actually seal it up entirely
so all this mechanical stuff like this
right here is not exposed to the
elements however
you can take these two screws off and
this play to come up and then it will
look just like this inside underneath
this cover here so that's the difference
between the new contactor and the old
contactor and so with this particular
contactor unit so we'll start off with
the label of course and here you'll see
is rated for 25 amps and it's also a 24
volt coil and so the contactor that I
put on is actually rated for 30 amps but
it's also 24 volts and so what the
amperage has to do is that it has a
maximum capacity you know you see it as
25 so if you try to push 30 through it
more likely you'll have a problem and I
think that kind of helped in some cases
the failure of this one and so if you
see right here where this screw is
you'll see this plastic here is actually
burned and cracked it actually broke off
what happened there was it looks like
the wire on it actually broke burned
some kind of way I don't know if
something got into it and caused it to
short out or what the case was but this
is the connector that was on it after
the fact
from the wire way it burned off at so
and as you see this screw is actually
brown so I don't know if that is the
indicator of the problem that was going
on with it because it should not have
been brown it should be fight the rest
of these you know silver we're not so
just a walk overview of everything so on
the bottom here have pins you can have
these push connectors that go on these
pins here at the bottom then you also
have these two terminal screws and so
you can stick the wire in this gap here
tighten the screw down same thing on
this side and then on the top it's a
different setup because they actually
use these connectors that go over the
screw and then you tighten screw down on
the connector instead of sticking the
wire directly in
so that's that side and this is what is
known as a single pole breaker and
there's also a thing called a double
pole breaker so the pole is the thing
that actually moves so this one here is
not seized up it does move but it only
has one pole which is this side so this
right side here as you see there's a
metal bar that goes from top to bottom
that means this side is always hot this
side is the side that switches so we
turn on the AC U and it this goes in and
it connects the bottom which is where
the power comes in that to the top which
is where it goes out to the compressor
and the fan on the condenser unit and
completes the circuit so sue Evans
so fan is running but there's no I don't
hear the compressor running too
and so that's how that works now how
does this move back and forth well on
this side and on this side you have
these two connectors as well these since
this is a 24 volt coil these connect to
the 24 volt wires that come from the
inner handler that is on the building
interior so when there is a call for
cooling the thermostat connects the
wires inside of it and that signal goes
to the air handler the air handler
triggers that same since that signal out
to the condenser through one side and
then back out the other
therefore you complete the circuit and
when you complete the circuit on here
this pushes in and completes the 240
circuit so if you ever heard me discuss
about relays before this is essentially
the same concept as a relay you have a
voltage of one type in this case would
be in 24 volts controlling a voltage of
a higher type which in this case is 240
volts that's 120 on the Left 120 on the
right which equals 240 now this one may
or may not say it I do not believe it
does but it is designed for 240 but it
doesn't say it the unit itself says 240
the actual conditioner unit says 240 on
it so and then once you remove the 24
volts so the thermostat says hey I've
reached the set temperature shut off so
that means the thermostat disconnects
the connection between the air handler
and it and so as a result that same
connection is also removed so the
incoming 24 volts is removed from here
and thus there's nothing on this side to
go back so this connector in the middle
here will spring up and there is a
spring underneath it as you can kind of
see right there there's a spring there
and so that comes back up to disconnect
the connector
connection between the top of the bottom
so that covers how a contactor works
hopefully you've learned a little bit
and are able to apply this in the future
if you have any questions about the
contactor or relay please hit me up and
drop a comment in the comment section
below also please check out me on social
media on Instagram and Twitter at almost
Engr and check out my website the almost
engineered calm
*Music*
