# Structured Media Wiring

This post will document my journey with wiring my house with low voltage wiring
also known as structured media wiring. 

## Need for Wiring

You are probably asking why the need for running wires when you can just use 
Wifi. I do have wifi. 

However, I am a cord cutter. That means that I stream video content regularly, 
sometimes in HD (high definition). When you are streaming video content in 
HD, depending on the bitrate of that content and what else is going on on
the network, it may struggle to send that data via wifi. 

I have multiple Roku devices. Depending on what I'm watching and the bitrate
at which it is being watched, the video will buffer. 

Since I have made the switch to used wired connections for my video streaming 
devices, they only buffer when starting the video. 

The problem with my current wired connections is that the cables are
unsightly running along the baseboards on the floor and the robot vacuum 
hates the cords as it sometimes tries to clean them up. 

## Planning

The most import step when doing wiring, is to plan where you want the wires and
equiptment to go. If you do not plan, you risk putting more holes in the wall
than necessary, not having all the parts required, and spend more time doing 
the job. 

The ideal time to run the structured wiring, would be when the house is 
being built. However, I was not born when my house was built, so there is 
no way I could have avoided things getting to their current state.

When they built the house, they did wire some of the rooms with one coax (cable).
The coax used is RG-59, which is the previous standard for coax. The current
standard is RJ-60. 

### House Challenges

I have a multistory story house. This means that running wires between floors is 
a difficult task. The demarcation point (the point where the utility or 
service provider responsbility ends and the customer's begins) 
will be a good distance from the 
network panel as the demarcation point shares a wall with the living room.

Although the ideal location for a panel to go to is close to the demarcation 
point, I do not want to have a panel in the middle of the wall of my
living room as it would be unsightly. Furthermore, the existing panels are outdoors
and having ethernet outdoors presents greater challenges.

### Make the Plan 

I have planned on running 2 ethernet and 1 coax per outlet. Per my plan, most 
rooms will have 3 outlets per room. This will be sufficient for my current 
and hopefully future needs for having a connected home.

I am running cabling to all over the house as I do not know what future uses
that I may have or need for the cabling. Rather to have it in place and not 
need it than to need it and not have it in place.

## Buy The Things 

Once you have made the plans for how many outlets that you will need, then 
you can buy the items that you will need. 

Below is the list of items that I purchased. The quantity of the items will 
vary depending on your setup.

### Parts List

* Structured Wiring Panel 
* Low voltage boxes 
* coax cable 
* Cat 6 cables 
* F-connectors, for coax cable ends 
* RJ-45 connectors, for ethernet cable ends
* ethernet crimping tool, with wire stripper 
* coax crimping tool, with wire stripper
* PVC conduit, so that you have a channel for future runs 
* outlet faceplates
* outlet connectors (things that are inserted into the faceplates)

## Locate The Central Panel


## Resources

These are some of the articles and blog posts that I researched for doing 
my cabling project. They my be of use to you. 

* https://www.structuredhomewiring.com/Wiring/StructuredWiringPanel/
* https://digitized.house/future-proofing-your-smart-home-with-structured-media-components/
* https://myeasytek.com/blog/structured-cabling-enclosure-wire/

