---- 
title: Lessons Learned 
date: 2020.01.10
---- 

# Lesson Learned as Production Support / Help Desk Agent 

## Background 

I worked for 7 years in Production Support role. When I explained the type of owrk 
that I did, I often related it to calling customer service when your internet or 
electricity goes out and you call to report them problem. I was a Level 2 agent for 
5 years and then Level 1.5 agent for 2 years (L1.5 is a role they made up to keep 
providing services for the client). During this time period, I learned a lot as
well as demostrated skills that others had not seen before. 

## Clients Equate A Burning Match to Wildfire

I worked several issues that required to have the client involved in fixing the 
issue or the issue was reported by the client. In some of those situations, when 
the client was asked of when the issue needed to be resolved by, he or she would 
say that it needed to be resolved by the end of the day. Mind you, it was like 
3 PM when this question was asked and nobody, not even myself wanted to stay at 
work later than necessary. 

In some situations, the stakes were high and the deadline was close, so it 
really was a wildfire. In other situations, the stakes were high and the deadline 
was at least 48 to 72 hours or more away, so the situation was a house fire that 
was next to a dry wooded wilderness. 

Ask the client why he or she stated that deadline. If you ask the 
right questions, there is a change that, you will 
have another day or two to get the issue addressed. However, the client will
usually want the issue addressed immediately, as they did not calculate, want,
or plan for the unexpected (a.k.a. Murphy's Law) happening.

## How to Document

One thing that I have learned is that documentation is an essential part of 
working in production support and help desk environments. If someone cannot
understand what is written, then it does not have any use.

### If You Can't Explain It To A Six Year Old

Einstein has been claimed to have said that "If you can't explain it to a six 
year old, you don't understand it yourself". One of the managers had a 
similar phrase about if a random person off the street cannot do the 
steps in the document correctly, then the document was not well written. 
I agree with both of these statements. The last thing that you want to do 
is be contacted to resolve an issue that you already wrote documentation for 
it being misunderstood. 
If you write a document, and you are the only one that understands what is being 
done in the document and how to properly perform the steps in the document, 
that document needs to be redone. 

### Screenshots 

When I first started writing documentation for our Level 1 support group, 
I would just write the steps or commands to be executed. After a few mishaps
with the Level 1 Support team performing steps, I started to include a
screenshot of each step being performed. Did this help reduce the number of 
errors? Yes it did. In some cases, certain tickets never got escalated to me 
because the document covered all scenarios and was through.
If the command was copied and pasted incorrectly 
(usually due to the documentation website adding special characters or copying 
text from a Word document and pasting it directly into a Unix or Linux 
session) or they did not see the button on the screen that they were to
click, they could use the screenshot to verify what it should look like on 
the screen before reporting it as bad documentation.

Good clear instructions with screenshots of the step to peform 
will reduce, or in some cases eliminate, the human errors that occur with
resolving tickets.

## How to Automate

If an issue is recurring and can be automated, then I would suggest that you 
automate it. Some people freakout at the thought of automating things because 
they feel that if you automate enough, you will automate yourself out of a 
job. From my experience, that was far from the truth. Automating helped 
reduce the amount of hours that outside of normal business hours. 

### Example

After a realignment of the team, I became the primary support for a new set 
of applications. One of those applications had a process that ran on the 
last three days of the month and the first of the month. Part of that 
process was that it wrote the date of the first of the month to that file. 
Problem was that when the process ran on the first of the month, the date 
was supposed to be for the previous month. For instance, if it was the
end of October or the first of November, 
then we had to make sure that the date in the file was for the first of 
October. Come to find out, this was a bug that the development team had 
made a change to, but regression testing was not performed on it. 
The development team did not consider it urgent as there was a work around 
available and the business team had back log items that had to be completed 
by a particular deadline.

What was being done by the 
agent that previously supported the application is that he was getting up in 
the early hours of the morning, around 1 AM, to manually update the date 
in the file and start the process. Once I took over the application, 
I had to start doing the same. 
What I would do is work my normal shift and then stay up until 1 AM to make 
the update and start the process as I did not want to sleep through the 
alarm as this process not running would have a major business impact.

After about the third month, I had had
enough of doing that and looked into automating it. What the 
previous agent and myself came up with was a shell script that would 
run at 1 AM, check the current date, and based on a number of if conditions, 
write the appropriate date to the file. 

After a confirmation run of the fix, this fix was presented to the
development team. As a result, the development team added it to the code 
base. Also I did not have to stay up late nights on the first of the month 
just to edit a text file.

### Writing Code 

If you do not know how to write code, then it is best that you learn how to do 
so. Working 

## Jump the Firewall

In some companies, the technology used is so specific to and designed just for 
that organization, that there are no resources outside of the company that can 
help resolve or diagnose issues. This is a difficult for individuals that provide 
support for these components. 
Other companies do use more name brand technology products, like Oracle, Java, 
or Linux. There is plenty of documentation on how to use these products and 
what the error message or exception messages mean and resolution steps. 

### Keep the Privates, Private

Going outside of the firewall was frowned upon in some situations as you could 
risk putting NPI (Non Public Information) or company secrets into the public. 
I am not suggesting that you ever submit private data or company secrets on a 
form on the public internet as you do not know where that information will end up.

### Errors and How To Do

I am saying that you can look up an error message to find the answer to a problem 
that you are having to quickly resolve issues. As I mentioned earlier, the less 
issues that you have to deal with, the more time that you have to work on other 
things. This applies to non production issues and items. 

## Share What You Know 

There is a common notion that if you share what you know, then somebody else can 
do what you know how to do and then you will be out of a job. While in some 
industries, that may be true, from my experience it is false. My experience has
been that if you know, that allows others to do what you do and allows you to 
do more and new things. 

When I worked on tickets that came in, I was sure to include SQL queries, 
SSH session logs, application logs, and any other information that I used to 
resolve an issue. Why? Because the last thing I want to have happen, is to get 
called for an issue when I am on vacation or to have the on-call person call me 
to resolve an issue that's simple as restarting a process. 

In some situations, the on-call person was able to resolve the current occurrence
of an issue, based on the previous occurrence of an isuse that had my notes and 
other information attached. 

### Example

One of the applications (App A) that I supported, was upgraded and 
set up on a new virtual machine (Server A). 
As part of the new VM setup, it also got a new IP address. 
The old server (Server B) was powered down. An interfacing system 
(App B) was not able to connect to App A. The 
individual that was the support contact for App B, said that he could not 
connect to App A from his computer or App B server. I checked the server 
for App A, and App A was online and running as it should be. After discussing
the issue, we compared the IP address than App B had and the 
IP address that Server B currently had. 

Come to find out, App B had cached the IP address for Server A for App A.
Since Server A was offline as it had been replaced by Server B, App B was 
saying that it could not connect to App A. It was at this point, 
I had to tell support agent for App B that he had to clear the 
DNS cache for App B and then try to connect again. He was not familiar
with this so he had to reach out someone else to provide him the 
info on how to do this. Once he cleared the cache and restarted 
the process, the connection was successful. He was able to document 
those steps so that if the issue were to happen again in the future, 
that he would be prepared and not have to get additional people involved.

## Conclusion

Working in the production support / help desk role can be difficult. 
