---
title: Voicing My Blog Posts
posted: 2023-03-22
author: Kenny Robinson
category: technology
keywords: speaking, blog post, blogging, google docs, being more efficient
---

On occasion I enjoy writing out my thoughts here on the blog, but one thing that I wanted to consider try doing is to use voice typing to be able to improve my efficiency in addition to reducing the amount of time it takes to create a blog post. that being said this post as you read it is actually being done via voice typing. 

I found some time ago within Google Docs that you are able to voice type. What that means is you're able to speak whatever it is that you want to speak and the Google Docs system will type it out for you in a document. Now it doesn't necessarily get everything correct. One thing that I did notice is that it does not capitalize the first letter of a sentence. I'm not sure why that is the case but you would think that because it is typing this out in English that it would know how to or automatically understand that the beginning of sentence begins with the capital letter. 

However, I will say that it does make things go faster when you're trying to get the thoughts out of your head and into a written format. The main reason is because you're not typing because most people can speak faster than they can type. Now in the worst case scenario you do have the keyboard in front of you if you are doing this on the computer like I am right now and you can make those money or adjustments as you go about the speaking that you are doing or at least in the case that I am doing. Now given that the first letter of a sentence is not automatically capitalized, I guess you could say that spell check can be run on the blog post after you do all of the voicing to correct those small spelling errors like not capitalizing the first letter of a sentence. It does add to the review time when you have to go back and make these minor adjustments, but I do think it is faster than having to sit here and type every word out versus voice saying or verbalizing each of those words. 

## Conclusion

That being said, I will probably be doing these blog posts via voice going forward because getting the blog post done in a more efficient manner means I have more time to be able to do other things. 
