---
title: 2024 Christmas Light Show Details
---

## 2024 Light Show Dates and Times

Show will run nightly from Black Friday until New Year's Eve.

During times of heavy rain or severe weather the light show may be stopped to reduce the
chance of electrical shorts occurring and for safety of individuals watching. Latest information
about the show will be posted on the [home page](/).

### Pick The Song

This year, we are allowing viewers to pick the song that they want to see played. To select a song,
visit the [home page](/). Your song request will be added to the queue. Songs will be
played in the order that they have been requested.

### Fun Facts

* Over 7,000 LED lights
* Numerous hours of programming
* Over 200 Feet of electrical wire
* 41 channels
* On average, about 330 songs are played per night
* Custom software that interfaces with the National Weather Service for weather information and Twitter to share show information

### Other Information

To find out more about the light show, including previous years show information and behind the
scenes looks, visit one of the pages listed below.

* <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1xZ8bZFQcM" target="_blank">Behind The Scenes of the 2022 Christmas Light Show</a>
* <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9zVLhOTrREI" target="_blank">2023 Christmas Light Show on YouTube</a>
* [FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions)](/faq)
* Visit <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4xp-TEEIAL-4XtMVvfRaQw" target="_blank">Tech Talk with RHT Services</a> to go behind the scenes and learn more about the light show.

## 2023 Light Show Summary

### Watch The Show

You can watch the 2023 show via the 
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9zVLhOTrREI" target="_blank">Tech Talk with RHT Services YouTube Channel</a>.

### Songs Requested

Below is a list of the number of times that each song was requested by viewers of the show.

* 20th Century Fox - 1
* About Damn Time (Clean) - Lizzo - 1
* All I Really Want For Christmas-Lil Jon featuring Kool-Aid Man - 6
* Baby Shark - 5
* Christmas Time Is Party Time_Luke - 5
* December - Earth Wind and Fire - 2
* Disco Santa - Holiday Express - 3
* Holidays - Meghan Trainor - 2
* Nutrocker - Trans-Siberian Orchestra - 2
* Shaft - Issac Hayes - 4
* Spongebob Square Pants - 5
* The Polar Express-Tom Hanks - 2
* The Song That Doesnt End - Shari Lewis - 1
* Uptown Funk - Mark Ronson - 3
* WAP - Cardi B feat Megan The Stallion - 5
* What You Want for Christmas - Quad City DJs and K-nock - 6
* Wizards In Winter - Trans-Siberian Orchestra - 2

#### Total Requests - 55

### Songs Played

Below is a list of the number of times each song was played.

* 20th Century Fox Theme - 1
* About Damn Time (Clean) - 2
* All I Really Want For Christmas - 229
* Baby Shark - 504
* Christmas Eve/Sarajevo - 4
* Christmas Time Is Party Time - 5
* December - 499
* Disco Santa (Santa Clause/N.O.E.L.) - 6
* Holidays - 736
* Nutrocker - 498
* Shaft - 92
* Show Information - 8771
* Spongebob Square pants - 8
* The Polar Express - 185
* The Song That Doesn't End - 1
* Uptown Funk - 184
* WAP (feat. Megan Thee Stallion) - 6
* What You Want for Christmas - 7
* Wizards In Winter - 2

#### Total Plays - 11740