---
title: What Is A Cyberdeck?
posted: 2026-04-08
author: Kenny Robinson
keywords: cyberdeck, tech projects, raspberry pi
---

Earlier this week, I was scrolling and a suggested video came up about a cyberdeck. 

This was my first time hearing of it, so I decided to watch the video. As I watched 
this particular video by 
Ube Boobey, what I realized was that this person had a built a computer 
using a Raspberry Pi inside of what appeared to be a wooden box.  It had other 
stuff in the box, such as plants, a thermometer, a hygrometer, and solar panel. 

Found this particular setup to be weird, but I digress.  As I looked into other cyberdeck
videos, I found that each person was customizing them to fit the needs of their 
choosing.  Some had theirs require that it be plugged into a wall.  Others 
set it up in the event the electrical grid went down and limited charging was 
available.  Thus they had a sufficient battery pack and connectors that allowed the 
computer to be connected to a solar panel. 

Further research lead me to find out that this term and concept originated from a 
fictional book that was written decades ago. 

That got me to thinking, if I were to build a cyberdeck, what would I include on 
mine.  I would run it on a Raspberry PI with battery power.  Would have a solar 
panel stored on the top or inside so that the batteries could be charged in the 
daytime.  Would build it inside a ammo case, so that it could survive the weather 
elements and being dropped on accident. While speakers would be nice to have, 
I would have a set of headphones that would remain inside the cyberdeck. That 
way if I had to listen to something and was in a place, like a library, where it would 
be rude to listen out loud, then I could do so.  Also because it would be easier 
to keep up with the headphones if they were always inside of the case. 
Lastly, would also consider having a Meshtastic or 
ESP32 connected to the Pi.  That way if 
the internet or other common communication methods went down, that the 
ESP32 with ESP-NOW configured or a Meshtastic device would allow me to connect to 
other nearby devices and communicate with others or to see if others are 
nearby.  

Of course this would require that you have all of the functionality set up and tested
before you actually needed it. Meaning you would have to be like a Boy Scout 
and “Be Prepared”. 

As for right now, I do not see myself building one of these. However, given the 
current situation that is taking place between the US and Iran, we really should 
be looking for different ways to power our devices and to be able to communicate
without the normal means of communication in case they go down.