# Build Web Application without Coding Using Drupal 7

## Presentation Information

This presentation describes how to create a web-based application using Drupal 7 without doing 
any programming. Presentation given to HackMGM (a Code for America Brigade) on September 21, 2017 
in Montgomery, Alabama.

## Code Repository

The code that was used in this presentation is available on GitHub at https://github.com/almostengr/fastwebapp.

## Sources Cited

The URLs that are shown in the presentation are listed below: 
[https://www.acquia.com/resources/case-study/fema-rebuilt-deliver-powerful-user-experience](https://www.acquia.com/resources/case-study/fema-rebuilt-deliver-powerful-user-experience)
[https://www.drupal.org/node/2374175](https://www.drupal.org/node/2374175)

## Watch The Presentation

You can watch the recording of this presentation below.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/U24Z3Ilkht8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Transcript (unformatted)

All right so tonight we're going to
cover building a web application without
doing any coding like at all
so and just for a little kicks and
giggles all right so Who am I
i'm kenny robinson I have a bachelors
from in business from the university
Alabama so I have a minor in computer
science my day job is still in
production support as an IT consultant
and who's doing the automations data
analysis process improvements the whole
nine yards you can look me up on
LinkedIn that is the URL and also have a
github account if you go to the hacking
I'm not doing my day job I'm doing stuff
like this and this is a actual traffic
light and the box in my hand is a
Raspberry Pi connected with relays that
I programmed and this particular
scenario I was demonstrating it to kids
teaching them how they can use computer
science with electrical engineering you
know it's possible career paths
all right so what is Drupal Drupal is a
content management system most people
are familiar with WordPress or Drupal
Joomla and Drupal is kind of the I won't
say the redheaded stepchild kind of the
fairy bleep snow it is open source it is
created by dries fight art he's also a
DC I think he's the chief information
officer a company called aqua which
drupal functionality outside of the core
can be extended by using modules and
WordPress people know this as plugins
but it's the same concept Drupal is not
often used because it is more
technically advanced and you have to
have more familiarity with it how to use
it just more hands-on experience the
current versions are version 7 and
version 8 version 7 is still popular
because of the fact those modules that
exist to extend the functionality have
to be rewritten for the new framework
that is being used in version 8 so a lot
of the sites including the one I'm going
to use today it's written in Drupal 7
Trippel does have a command-line
interface is known as thrush has
packages in Ubuntu and maybe a
other linux distros there's not one on
Windows as far as I know and if you want
to look up more about football the
website is true filled out over all
right so most people think intact I've
never used the Drupal website not so
fast
so there are several websites the white
house the FEMA and the Weather Channel
all use Drupal behind the scenes
The Weather Channel recently did they
did a major upgrade probably roughly two
to three years ago to switch over to the
Drupal platform and as you know whether
The Weather Channel does weather
everywhere so they have millions of data
elements that they are trying to law the
track used for historical references
pulling data from other places like the
National Weather Service and so forth so
if you want to read about that you can
read up on the case study FEMA also has
the Drupal website whoa and what they're
still using like apps you know we go out
in fields in the disaster areas like
Florida for instance for the recent
hurricane and this interface you know
the Drupal website allows them to
interface from their phones in the field
and a lot of times if you look at a
website you can conative whether it is
Google based or not in the White House
website there's this meta tag that does
say
rupal 7 is the generator of the site
all right so I use Drupal in my personal
setup one of which is farm OS farm OS is
a particular truthful distribution and
it allows for a YouTube manage is
intended for usage with the farm but
it's also can be used I use it as for
garden and managing like grass and stuff
like that so in that particular
screenshot actually took a striking the
red peppers that I've ever this year and
decided to take a photo uploaded into
Drupal and also use the data to track
how much another use that I have for it
is issue tracker so kind of like github
has issues I use the same thing but for
tracking issues with my house and with
my vehicle and one other use you can use
is automation you can Drupal has the
capabilities of sending and receiving
restful quests so for instance if you
want let's say is you tracker to connect
to my farm of s I can have my issue
tracker trigger you know let's say
something happen let's say I added an
issue with the grass well that issue
could be sent to farm OS and it's like
well you create an issue over there let
me log it over here as well and that
allows for across you know automating
tasks another thing that I've done is
with farm or lest I have it pulling data
from the National Weather Service the
National Weather Service has an XML feed
that is available for each locality so
by pulling that data I'm able to use
that to determine whether it has rain or
not and if it has a range within
the last seven days I have farmer les
send the email saying there has been no
rain you need to water the grass so
there's many many uses of them all right
now into the demonstration so these are
the notes we're going to assume they're
not great at coding or do not know how
to code you have one business day to do
everything with this particular project
there are no project plans in advance it
has to be a web-based application it has
to have a mobile API and it must be
browser friendly and you also have to
like the ability to log into the website
to do have the client to be able to log
into their own updates thinking all
right so we're gonna do this and it work
when I tested it but as I do production
support on the daily basis let's hope it
still works all right so first things
first we're going all right so all of
the code that I'm gonna be showing this
whole repo is here on github like I say
you can link to my page from the hacking
jam page as I'm a member on there and
all the instructions that we'll be
covering are listed here if we run
across something that's not quite right
I'll go back and correct it afterwards
all right so the first thing we'll do is
to set up Drupal so I have my dev server
set up with the code files already in
place
so normally you would just go set rupal
files put them in place so if your web
server
so forth alright then we'll do the
standard installation and we're choosing
English
*Music*
it's like we're already calling the fire
department there we go okay so normally
you have to enter your database
credentials and it will prompt you give
you a form so the database name the user
ID password and the server credentials
you would enter those but since I
already have a settings.php file in
place if you skip that particular part
of the process all right the next step
is to enter the site name so we'll just
call it fast web app for short you have
to enter the site email address Drupal
has the capabilities of sending emails
out
all right then you set up your settings
obviously we're in the United States
time zone if you want update
notifications you can put these in place
if not you can easily just turn them off
and save them continue all right
and once loop was done it'll allow you
to log into the website all right so
with the standard installation you get a
lot of additional modules installed that
you really don't need so what we're
going to do is we're going to turn those
off and these steps are also again in
the github readme file so we don't need
comments dashboard database logging
overlay and shortcut all right and then
we do need to turn on some additional
modules to get honest functionality so
we need scrolling down we need see tools
this is called see tools for short but
it was chaos tools services which will
enable the usage of REST API and then we
also need the rest server alright and we
could continue if you forget to check
something
Drupal says hey I need this to complete
this you just turn it on either way all
right so we'll go back to the home page
and we're gonna create a new content
type well new content when you use the
standard into installation it creates
the article in the basics page content
types for most of if you're just
creating static pages you'll use the
basic page type
and we will say all right so now we have
the first page is active and it can be
accessed at this URL all right so now
that we have one page in place we're
going to make this site mobile-friendly
so there's a theme here called Mayo and
we're gonna enable that and also set it
as the default and then we'll go into
settings and with Drupal a lot of times
the configuration items do not initially
save to the database when you set them
up so it's always best to go in and save
the options even if you don't change
them initially
all right so this is our mobile friendly
thing and if you resize it you see how
it kind of puts everything in a single
column but if you expanded there's the
sidebar that's over here now so we've
completed the the mobile browser version
of this all right so the next is to go
to the structure and we can rearrange
the items on the page like if you wanted
to search bar to be below the navigation
go to structure locks and here are each
of the blocks and so there are
additional blocks at the bottom that
you're not using if you want to move
them around life I wanted to get rid of
this power by Drupal just move it down
to the disable section and if I went to
search box below the navigation I can
move it there and then hit safe and so
now you see the search box is below the
navigation and also the Drupal footer is
removed right same concept different
name alright so now that we've done our
page layout we can go and create our
REST API so we go to structure again and
services and so we're gonna add an
endpoint and we're going to name the
endpoint now the machine name is the
internal name think of it as like the
unique identifier for that particular
service so we're gonna name it API and
machine names have to be lowercase if
not if you type the wrong thing again
and it will display an error and the
server we're going to select is the rest
server this is one of the options that
we turned on
did our module updates so we're not
gonna do session authentication that's a
little bit more complex for this
particular demonstration and so we'll
save and now we have our REST API
available so we'll go to edit resources
and we need to be able to pull content
from that REST API so we're going to
note is a so in Drupal there's a concept
of entities and users are entities pages
which we refer to as nodes are also
entities and taxonomy which is kind of
like keywords or categories also known
as entity are types of entities so with
the node entity basically basically page
is a type of node and they know it is a
type of an entity so in order to be able
to access the page that we did create
we'll need to be able to retrieve a node
and if you want to list all of the pages
you'll need to turn on the indexing of a
node you can create nodes but we won't
do that in this demo that's also a
little bit more advanced so now that we
have our retrieve and index capabilities
turned on for our API we will get save
all right so the next thing is to test
the rest API
is Firefox Chrome as an extension not
for sure of what it is but I do know
that Firefox also has an extension
called poster
all right and you can take this URL
so by default when you do a API request
and will return the XML but if you put
dot JSON at the end of it you will get a
JSON response and so here is our Dixon
response that shows the full list since
we only have one node is only listing
that one node but if there were
additional nodes it would show those as
well all right and to get only just that
particular node you specify the node ID
and the node ID can be found by either
going to the page and looking at the URL
or you if you're looking at a database
you'll see it the same way you'll have
this unique identifier over one so we
just append that to the URL and do a get
request and these are all the elements
in that the revision ID we have the user
ID the title status whether the node is
visible to the public or not his
commenting turned it on turned on or not
is it promoted to the front page and
various other elements in here as well
so now you have a fully functioning web
application that is also mobile friendly
and it did not take you eight hours to
build it
with the rest API so any questions
and yes you can have more questions yes
it is it's the quick and short version
there it is a little bit more elaborate
if you want to get more involved as far
as like you can with the Bicentennial
application that we're building
we actually have custom additional
content types that we're using and that
allows for us to have additional fields
so we can go in and put in let's see so
we can specify field types these are
just the default types but but I'll say
you can add additional modules there's
an email fill type there's an address
field type there's all kinds of
additional field types that can be added
and it will do validation on that type
you know if you make it mandatory what
is it this is my sequel but it also
supports sequel Lite I think it is
yes yes
we have some of them available
we do have some of them available but
we're still working on everything else
we have a high level view of everything
at this point
then we'll tweak it as need be
yes
trying to get
so I'll give you a history of I'll give
you a history on that so where I work my
our clients we had a system you know the
system that does all the access
provisioning and so the I guess the root
user is called I am admin so I just kind
of took it from that alright so here's
the historic marker content type and so
in here we have the stuff that you would
probably think that would be necessary
so like what county is it in what city
location don't ya
picture the ability to put pictures in
here as well
yes yes and see even even if you don't
want to Jason even if you don't want to
Jason output also
you

